The Project Gutenberg EBook of Poor Blossom, by Edith Carrington

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: Poor Blossom
       The Story of a Horse

Author: Edith Carrington

Release Date: October 9, 2020 [EBook #63418]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK POOR BLOSSOM ***




Produced by Richard Tonsing, David Garcia and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This
book was produced from scanned images of public domain
material from the Google Books project.)









                             POOR BLOSSOM.


[Illustration: MY PLACE OF BIRTH.]




                             POOR BLOSSOM;
                         The Story of a Horse.


[Illustration]

                            BY THE AUTHOR OF

             “NEDDY AND ME;” “ONLY A LADYBIRD,” ETC., ETC.


                                LONDON:
               S. W. PARTRIDGE & Co., 9, PATERNOSTER ROW.




 Geo. Watson & Co., Printers, 28, Charles Street, Farringdon Road, E.C.




[Illustration:

  Dedication.


  TO ALL WHO HAVE THE MANAGEMENT OF THAT NOBLE AND USEFUL ANIMAL
  THE HORSE,
  THESE PAGES ARE RESPECTFULLY DEDICATED.
]

------------------------------------------------------------------------




[Illustration]




                               CONTENTS.


                               CHAPTER I.

                                                   PAGE
                 MY PLACE OF BIRTH                    1


                              CHAPTER II.

                 ‘BROKEN’                             7


                              CHAPTER III.

                 MY NEW MASTER                       13


                              CHAPTER IV.

                 I AM SOLD.—MR. HARKAWAY             21


                               CHAPTER V.

                 THE FURNITURE DEALER                31


                              CHAPTER VI.

                 SAD SCENES OF LIFE                  35


                              CHAPTER VII.

                 MY NEW MASTER, BENJAMIN BUNTER      43


                             CHAPTER VIII.

                 THE GREAT CARNIVAL                  50


                              CHAPTER IX.

                 HERE AND THERE                      65


                               CHAPTER X.

                 MY GENTLE MISTRESS                  69


                              CHAPTER XI.

                 ANOTHER LOSS AND A DISAPPOINTMENT   75


                              CHAPTER XII.

                 EXIT BLOSSOM                        83

[Illustration]

[Illustration]




                             POOR BLOSSOM.




                               CHAPTER I.
                           MY PLACE OF BIRTH.


The first thing that I remember is a green field enclosed by a stiff
fence, where I was running about by my mother’s side. I cannot call to
mind the earliest days of my existence, but I am sure that I was not
more than a fortnight old when my mother gave me my first lesson in
life—a lesson I have never forgotten. My mother was a fine bay mare, the
property of Mr. Bayne, a farmer, who seems to have treated her very
kindly; indeed I have never heard any horse speak better of a master
than my mother was accustomed to speak of the man who owned her.

‘He has never laid a whip upon me,’ she would say with a proud toss of
her head; ‘he has a heart far too kind for that sort of thing, and he
knows I always do my best—and what horse can do more, I wonder.’

But to return to the lesson she gave me. I was ambling by her side when
Mr. Bayne entered the field, and my mother, as she usually did, ran up
to him to be caressed and fed with some trifling luxury, such as a slice
of carrot or bit of sugar. I kept by her side until we reached him; then
I, purely from playfulness, turned and kicked at him, lightly—you
know—not by any means in a way to hurt him, I assure you.

‘Woa there,’ shouted Mr. Bayne; ‘vicious are you, my youngster? the
mother’s blood don’t seem to run in you.’

He said nothing more, but having fed and stroked my mother, he went out
of the field, and left us together. Then I received the lesson to which
I have alluded.

‘How very wrong of you,’ she said, ‘to kick at so good and kind a
master.’

‘It was only in play,’ I replied, hanging my head and feeling rather
foolish.

‘I know it was so,’ she returned, ‘but it was wrong of you nevertheless.
Some men are so stupid that they do not know play from vice, in a horse,
and only few of them seem really to understand us. They often reprove us
when we endeavour to do right, and you will be beaten if you do not curb
your propensity to play.’

‘Were you ever beaten?’ I asked.

‘Once I had a very cruel master,’ said my mother with a sigh; ‘but I do
not care to talk about it. If ever it should be your lot to find such a
man you will know enough about it then.’

‘But why did you endure it?’ I asked; ‘are you not stronger than man?
Why did you not kick?’

‘My child,’ said my mother impressively, ‘do not talk so idly: we are
created the lawful servants of man, and it is our _duty_ to submit. If
he is kind we repay him tenfold; if he is cruel we must do our duty
still, and the sin of cruelty be upon his head. Besides we are in his
power—he has so many things at his command, and if we disobey him he can
put us to great pain. You will learn that when you come to be broken.’

‘What is that?’ I inquired.

‘Your training so that you may be useful to man,’ returned my mother;
‘you will have to do your work one day with the rest of us.’

There was a pause after this, and my mother cropped the sweet grass
while I meditated. My curiosity was aroused with regard to this creature
who ruled over us, and I soon renewed the subject.

‘Tell me more about our master, man,’ I said; ‘I am very anxious to
learn something about him.’

‘He is a strange creature,’ said my mother—‘as much a puzzle to himself
as to the rest of the created world. He is very clever in some things
and very stupid in others; for instance, he knows nothing of _our_
language, although we understand _his_ perfectly. If Giles—that is Mr.
Bayne’s foreman—bids me go here or there, I understand him without rein
or whip; and yet when he was ploughing in the ten-acre field, and I
pulling up told him as plain as I could that we were near a piece of
hollow ground, he would not understand me, but made me go on—and then
the ground gave way and we were almost buried alive.’

‘How did you know it was hollow?’ said I.

‘By the sound,’ said my mother; ‘I don’t think they ever found out what
the hollow was—but there it was, as the uneven ground will testify.
Giles afterwards did me the credit to tell his master that I had pulled
up, and my doing so was considered to be remarkably clever, but I
thought nothing of it.’

‘Giles must be very, very stupid,’ I remarked.

‘Not more than most men,’ said my mother; ‘but they are very clever at
some things—they build houses, make carts and harness; but still they
are inferior to us in many things. Now there is Mr. Martin’s Boxer, who
is very clever indeed; you know Mr. Martin?’

‘The farmer who drinks so?’ I said.

‘That’s the man,’ rejoined my mother. ‘He goes every Saturday to market,
and returns home in a state of helpless intoxication; _he_ doesn’t know
the way home a bit, but Boxer brings him safely to the door, along the
dark roads, and through the narrow lanes, much better than any man could
do, and yet that fellow Martin—I cannot call him anything less—very
often beats Boxer most cruelly.’

‘I am sure _he_ ought to be kicked,’ I said indignantly.

‘_Duty_ forbids, my dear child,’ replied my mother; ‘a proper-minded
horse never kicks one who is appointed to be his master; but some kick
and bite too; many of these are naturally bad, _but I am certain that
most of them are made bad through ignorant and cruel training_. But even
that is no excuse; if man forgets his duty to the horse, the horse never
ought to forget his duty to man: remember this, my child, act up to it,
and you won’t regret it in your old age.’

I promised to remember, and although I was young and therefore rather
thoughtless, I really took this lesson to heart, and found it of
excellent service to me throughout my varied life.

It is not my intention to dwell upon my early days, but I must say a few
words more about the paddock—the dear old paddock where I first breathed
the pure air. Ah! I can see it now, and would that I was there. I can
see the narrow peaceful stream gliding away from the water-mill, as if
in calm satisfaction of having at least for the time performed its duty.
I hear the murmur of the wheel as it turns and turns, now in the shadow,
now in the sunlight; and the lark’s song is in my ear again, and I smell
the sweet-scented clover in the field, and the mignonette growing by the
cotter’s garden gate; and I see the sloping roof of the old farm-house
peeping out from the ivy clinging lovingly to its walls. Oh, home of the
spring-time of my life, it is all before my mind. But these eyes of mine
shall never see thee more, nor shall my ears be charmed again with the
hum of the bee, the song of the lark, or the murmur of the water-wheel.
It is all over now. But let me not anticipate, or waste time in useless
regrets, for I have a long story before me and but a short time to tell
it in.

To resume. When I was about five months old, another mare and foal were
put into the paddock. The mare was an old acquaintance of my mother, and
the two were soon gossiping together; but the foal was of course a
stranger to me. He informed me that his name was Rip, and I told
him—what I might have told my readers before—that Mr. Bayne had named me
Blossom. This introductory business over, we became excellent friends,
and capered about the paddock in fine style. Rip was a better looking
foal than I was—he was better bred, and had I believe something of the
race-horse in him; he told me that his great-grandfather, on his
mother’s side, had nearly won a big race once, and this Rip seemed to be
very proud of. I felt sorry for him on account of this weakness—it was
so much like a man to be proud of such a ridiculous thing.

Rip told me a deal of news which he seemed to have picked up from a
number of horses in farmer Martin’s meadow, where he had been with his
mother. He knew Boxer, and spoke highly of him as a long suffering and
much-enduring horse; but he said that Boxer was getting tired of doing
all he could for the farmer at night and getting beaten in the morning.

‘I should not be surprised,’ said Rip in a whisper, ‘if he upsets the
farmer in the pond by the “Wheatsheaf,” and leaves him there.’

A few weeks before I should have expressed my approval of this; but my
mother’s lesson had borne fruit, and I earnestly hoped that Boxer would
not so forget himself. Rip, however, favoured the idea of the pond
trick, and said that if Boxer did not carry out his threat he should
think he was but a poor, mean-spirited thing. In all this I detected, as
my readers have doubtless done, the racing blood of Rip’s
great-grandfather on his mother’s side.

Those were very happy days in the old paddock. Rip and I enjoyed
ourselves amazingly, even when we were left alone, which occasionally
happened if our mothers were put into the waggon; but sometimes Giles
fetched them for the plough, and then we youngsters went with our
mothers and saw the earth ripped up by the terrible implement and smelt
the fresh soil as it was turned over into the sunlight. I was always of
a sober and reflective turn, and never lost the chance of ruminating
upon anything which came under my notice; but Rip was rather giddy—I am
afraid I ought to say thoughtless too—and gave his mother a deal of
anxiety and trouble. I have heard the poor creature declare a hundred
times that he would be the death of her; but Rip always laughed at such
declarations, and said that he would grow better some day.

‘If we don’t have some fun now,’ he would say, ‘we never shall. It is
all very well for those old fogies to talk, but they were not always so
sober as they are now, I give you my word.’

I could not help laughing at Rip, he was so very droll; but I really
feared that he was getting into a bad way, and it seemed such a pity,
for Rip grew handsomer and handsomer every day, while I, although
improving, was but a poor plain animal at the best.

‘Rip will have a gentleman for a master,’ I heard Mr. Bayne say one day
to Giles.

‘And who will have Blossom, sir?’ asked Giles.

‘I think Mr. Crawshay will have him,’ replied Mr. Bayne, and all that
night I wondered what Mr. Crawshay was like, and whether he was as good,
or better, or worse than a gentleman. Rip pretended to know him, and
told me that he often drove his horses to death; but Rip frequently said
idle things when he was in a joking mood, and I did not mind him.

We passed the winter in the farm belonging to Mr. Bayne, and during the
long evenings my mother prepared me for the life which was now not far
ahead. She told me to be tractable when the horse-breaker took me in
hand, and I should escape a deal of punishment and pain. She also
prepared me for our parting, and told me that when it came we should
probably lose sight of each other for ever. The example of her fortitude
gave me strength, and for her sake I did my best to conceal the pain the
prospect of parting gave me. As for Rip, he seemed to trouble his mind
very little about it, but looked forward to the new life as something to
rejoice over.

One day in the spring the parting came. A tall, strong man, clad in
velveteen, made his appearance on the farm, and Rip and I were sent with
him to the paddock to be ‘broken in.’

[Illustration]

[Illustration]




                              CHAPTER II.
                               ‘BROKEN.’


Resolved to be tractable, I yielded myself to the man in velveteen, and
he put some leather straps over my head, and a piece of iron in my
mouth, and then he got upon my back. His weight was very disagreeable to
me, and seemed to destroy in a moment the sense of freedom which I had
hitherto enjoyed. My first impulse was to kick out and try to throw him,
but the warning I had received from my mother, with the addition of the
iron in my mouth, checked me. Obeying the rider’s touch, I made the best
of his weight, and ran to and fro in the field, turning when he pulled
the reins, which he did unnecessarily hard; and obeying even the
pressure of his knees—in fact, acting in accordance with his wishes to
the best of my ability.

In about half an hour Mr. Bayne came into the field, and the man in
velveteen guided me up to him.

‘This will be a capital nag for a lady,’ he said; ‘a young lady learning
to ride will be very glad of him.’

‘I have sold him to Mr. Crawshay,’ replied Mr. Bayne, ‘and they will use
him both to ride and drive.’

‘Just the very hanimal,’ said the man, and then he got off my back and
went to Rip, who all this time had remained fretting and fuming with his
head tied to a gate. Mr. Bayne took charge of me, and the man in
velveteen released Rip.

‘Woa there,’ he cried, as my friend gave a violent plunge; ‘steady
there—will you? Here’s a horse of another colour. Quiet there!’

But Rip would not be quiet, and I was sorry for it, as I knew what would
but to surely follow.

I was spared the scene, however, for Mr. Bayne, loosening the halter
round my neck, led me back to the stable; but as I left the field I
heard the man in velveteen shouting in an angry tone, and then I was
certain that Rip had foolishly shown resistance. By the stable door we
came upon Giles the ploughman, who inquired with an air of interest how
I had behaved.

‘Like a good-tempered little fellow,’ replied Mr. Bayne, patting me, and
a thrill of satisfaction ran through my body. I felt that I had done my
duty.

They left me in the stall, and I had nearly an hour to think over the
process of breaking in. I cannot say that I liked it; the weight of a
man upon my back seemed to take away my liberty, as I said before; and
yet it was not entirely inharmonious to my nature—it was more novel than
disagreeable.

‘Man is certainly created our master,’ I thought; ‘he was quite at ease
upon my back, and sat as if it were perfectly natural to him, and that
is the reason, no doubt, why my back is so long and broad. Man was
certainly _not_ created to carry _us_. Then he has hands to drive, and
we have not. Yes, man is our master, and my mother is right—it is our
duty to submit.’

Thus I reasoned until the hour was passed and Rip was brought home.
Giles and the man in velveteen led him in and put him into the next
stall to mine. The man in velveteen looked very hot, but he was not
angry—in fact he had rather a pleased look upon his face.

‘I don’t care to have ’em all easy like this chap,’ he said, addressing
Giles and pointing at me; ‘I like to have ’em try a trick or two on me,
and then I can show who is master. The rougher they are the more I can
come out—and it was by breaking in the rough ‘uns that I made my name.’

‘Rip is full of play,’ said Giles.

‘Is he?’ replied the other sarcastically. ‘_You_ may call it play, but
_I_ don’t; when a horse kicks out at all sides of the compass, and bites
at you like a fury, I calls it vice, and that’s the thing I know how to
cure. I gives them plenty of physic for it—whip and spur without stint,
and they soon gives in.’

[Illustration: BROKEN.]

He then left the stable in company with Giles, and I, knowing that Rip
had gone through a fierce fight, waited for him to speak of it. But he
was silent, and after the lapse of five minutes I peeped over the
partition to get a look at my friend. Poor Rip! never shall I forget the
change which had come over him. His handsome head was no longer erect,
but hung low in a dejected manner; the fire had left his brilliant eye,
and his fine velvet-like mouth was bleeding; it was plain the fight had
gone against him.

‘Why did you resist?’ I asked in a sympathising tone.

‘It is cruel work,’ he replied, with a big sob which seemed to shake his
frame. ‘It is not fair—he had a whip and spurs, and the bit cut my mouth
like a knife. Look at my sides.’

I looked, and saw that the satin coat was scored and scratched by the
spurs, and broad weals of flesh stood up where the whip had been. I was
so sorry for my friend that I could say nothing, but only shed a few
quiet tears.

‘If he had been kind,’ sobbed Rip, ‘I would have obeyed him; but he
began by saying that he knew I should give him a deal of trouble, and
that he would stand none of my nonsense. How could he expect a horse of
spirit to endure such language?’

‘Perhaps you showed that you meant resistance,’ I said gently.

‘I may have done so a little,’ replied Rip; ‘but what could be more
natural? and when I gave in—which I was obliged to do, for what can we
do against the bit, and whip, and spur?—when I gave in he was not easy,
but continued to beat me until liquid fire seemed to run through every
vein of my body: it was cruel—cruel.’

I did my best to console Rip, and after a time he became calmer. We were
left to ourselves during the evening, and I took the opportunity to
reason with him, and before we lay down to rest I had the satisfaction
of hearing that it was his intention to abandon all resistance in the
future.

On the morrow we were taken in hand again, and I was put into the shafts
of a cart and driven to and fro. The rattle of the wheels was very
disagreeable at first, but I resolved not to show any signs of fear lest
my movements should be taken for resistance, and eventually I became
accustomed to it, and received a second kind acknowledgment from my
master in the form of a patting and a piece of sugar.

Rip underwent a second course of the saddle, and wisely gave in to the
hand of his master; but the resistance of the day before had gone
against him, and nobody seemed to place entire faith in his docility. I
heard the man in the velveteen tell Mr. Bayne that Rip was a tricky
youngster, and would require a tight hand to be kept over him for a year
or two; so much for first impressions!

About a week after this I left the farm. My going was very sudden, and I
had neither time nor opportunity to take leave of any of those I loved.
A man came for me, and I learned that he was Mr. Crawshay’s groom. He
put a saddle upon my back, and got into it with the easy confidence of a
man who could trust the animal he was riding. My mother was away in a
team which Giles was driving to some distant town, and Rip was in the
hands of his trainer; so without a single word of adieu I turned my back
upon the farm and left it behind me—for ever.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]




                              CHAPTER III.
                             MY NEW MASTER.


Of course I had been picturing to myself the style of home I was going
to, and as might have been expected I found it quite opposite to the
creation of my mind. I had portrayed to myself a house something like
that upon the farm, but larger and grander, and surrounded by trees and
flowers all carefully arranged, with a fine lawn in the centre; but
instead of this I found that my new master lived in the heart of a large
country town named Upton, and the ground around it, instead of being
devoted to the cultivation of flowers, was sacrificed to the art of
making beer. My new master was, in short, a brewer, and his house
adjoined his place of business.

I am not going into the question of strong drink,—a little concerning
that will be found further on; for the present I confine myself to my
master and his family. Mr. Crawshay was a stout, florid man, with a loud
voice which many people called genial—perhaps it was, sometimes—but I
have heard that same voice address his wife and daughter in a tone
anything but genial.

Personally I had no connection with the brewery, but was especially
reserved for the use of Mrs. Crawshay and her daughter. Mrs. Crawshay
was an invalid, and only went out in a waggonette, which I had the
honour of drawing, and when not required in that capacity, Miss Crawshay
put on her habit and used me for equestrian purposes. Both these ladies
were kind to me—I liked them very much, and used to prick up my ears
whenever I heard their voices. The young lady was especially fond of me,
and often came to the stable to feed me with some nicety, an apple and
so on, out of her delicate hand. Mrs. Crawshay being quite an invalid
was unable to perform the same kindness, but I have heard her, at least
fifty times, tell the servant, as I stood at the door, to bring me a
biscuit; and whenever the morning drive was ended she was always very
particular in her injunctions to the groom to take great care of me, and
he being in that respect a very excellent fellow, certainly made me as
comfortable as a horse could be.

I cannot tell how it was, I suppose it was instinct, but from the first
moment I entered this service I felt sorry for my two mistresses. There
was a quiet, patient look on their faces which I did not understand
then, but which I thoroughly understand now—and Mr. Crawshay and his
loud, genial voice had something to do with the look you may be sure.

I never was a great favourite with the brewer—he did not dislike me,
but, he took no interest in me. Never once did he either ride or drive
me, but he kept for his use a tall, conceited creature, who always
turned up his nose at my quiet ways, and called me a ‘draught horse;’
and whenever we met, as we sometimes did with Mr. Crawshay on his back,
he passed me as if he had never seen me before, although we spent our
leisure time in the same stable.

Little pitchers have large ears: so have horses, and I soon picked up
enough from the groom and the housemaid, who were often chatting
together, to learn that genial Mr. Crawshay was a perfect brute to his
wife and daughter, and he had bought me because he had a great dislike
to have anything, even a horse, in common with them. To the outer world
a horse and chaise for his wife and daughter was an act of liberality,
but to the inner life of that wretched home it was deliberate isolation.

Looking back, I remember with mingled joy and pain the kindness I
received from that mother and child. Never a morning passed without the
daughter visiting the stable, and as I have declared before they always
expressed a vast amount of anxiety respecting my condition and welfare,
which was very delightful to hear. My home, in short, apart from the
little anxiety and grief I felt for my two kind mistresses, was a very
happy one.

The groom’s name was Richards, and he was a very fair groom in a general
way, but he had a failing very common to his class—he was fond of drink.
Sometimes he would be sober for a month, and then he would, as Mrs.
Crawshay expressed it, ‘break out’—that is, he would begin drinking
early in the morning and do little else throughout the day, and tumble
into his bed, which was in a room above the stables, in a state which
would have disgraced the very lowest order of brutes; I am certain that
even a pig would have been ashamed of it.

Mrs. Crawshay very often reproved him in a quiet way, and did her best
to reform the man; but he was too near the brewery—he lived in the very
centre of temptation, and he was not strong enough to resist it. From
Mr. Crawshay he received nothing but oaths and threats, which had less
effect upon the groom than the kind admonition of his mistress; and he
would go on in this sad way for about a week, and then suddenly turn to
sobriety again. I have often wondered what possible gratification
Richards could derive from this outburst, for it always made him very
ill and wretched, and for days afterwards he would skulk about more like
a criminal burdened with crime than an honest, hard-working man.

This habit proved fatal to him, and brought a great misfortune upon me.
One night, when Richards was in the stable putting all right for the
night, Mr. Crawshay came in with a letter in his hand.

‘Richards,’ he said, ‘put Blossom into the dog-cart and drive over to
Mr. Turner’s. You have nothing to do but leave the letter and bring back
a portmanteau which his man will give you. Keep it in your room for the
night, and bring it into the house in the morning.’

Richards, accustomed to obey, made no demur, and quickly harnessed me to
the dog-cart, and drove to Mr. Turner’s residence, a house about twelve
miles from Upton. The letter was delivered, and a servant brought out a
portmanteau, with an injunction to Richards to be careful, as it
contained deeds and papers of importance. Richards replied that he knew
his business, and always took care of everything, and drove away with a
self-satisfied air.

It was now about ten o’clock, and an autumn moon was shining brightly as
I trotted briskly towards home. I was always of a sober turn, and never
cared for late hours; some horses may like them, but they don’t suit me,
so I put my best foot foremost, resolved to get home with the least
possible delay. Richards also seemed bent upon getting back, until we
came in sight of a roadside inn, with its well-lighted windows standing
out boldly to invite him in. The unfortunate man could not resist the
temptation, but steered straight for the beacon which decoyed him to his
ruin, and pulled up at the door. An ostler came, and Richards, before
going in, told the man that he would be out again in a minute, and that
he need not trouble about me, as I would stand perfectly quiet; he then
passed through the doorway and left me to my reflections.

The minute passed, and other minutes were added to it, and Richards did
not return. Two other carts came up, and the drivers went in also; and
then I heard shouts and laughter, and Richards asking them what they
would have to drink, so I concluded that he had met with some old
friends—not knowing what I know now, that men under the influence of
drink make bosom friends of all comers, and spend their money in the
wildest and most foolish manner.

I was kept waiting an hour, and then Richards reeled out in company with
the other drivers and about half a dozen other men. They were all in a
maudlin state of drunkenness, swearing eternal friendship, and declaring
that every man there assembled was a glorious fellow without an equal in
the known world.

Two of the men were going to Upton, and Richards volunteered to drive
them home. They got up, both in front, which was too bad, as their
weight pressed very heavily upon me. Sober, Richards would have noticed
this, and shifted the body of the cart; but being intoxicated, he
neither knew nor cared how much their weight pressed upon me, nor how
great my sufferings in consequence.

[Illustration: ‘DOWN I WENT WITH A TERRIBLE CRASH.’]

We started, Richards driving with a very loose rein, and I am sure that
if ever I needed help from man I needed it that night; a tight rein
would have assisted me with all that weight pressing upon my withers.
Bad as it was, I would have taken them home safely if Richards had let
me alone. But he would not. First he shouted to me; then he shook the
rein; then I felt the cruel whip about my loins and head, until pain and
fright bewildered me. We came to a steep hill, but I seemed to be
scarcely conscious of where I was, as Richards beat me more furiously
than ever. Maddened, I sprang forward and tore down the hill: the weight
behind was too much, I could not gather my feet, and down I went with a
terrible crash.

For a moment all was still, and I lay panting, half-dead with fear and
excitement; then I heard one of the men shouting for help. What followed
I can but dimly remember, for I was in a state of bewilderment, like a
horse in a dream; but I can just call to mind the arrival of several
persons from a house close by, who helped the men to put something heavy
into the cart, and then I, having arisen, was led slowly home. I was
suffering very much; my knees were dreadfully cut, and I was terribly
shaken; but my thoughts were busy with the load I was bearing home. It
was poor Richards with a broken neck, quite dead!

They rang Mr. Crawshay up and told him what had happened. His first
inquiry was for his portmanteau, which was safe; then he expressed a few
words of regret for Richards, qualifying his sorrow by saying that it
was just what he expected; and wound up by cursing _me_, as a brute who
was not worth his salt. I was very tired and bruised and sore, but I had
enough spirit left in me to kick him then; I should have done so, but I
remembered the lesson of my mother, and wisely forbore.

Mr. Crawshay did give me shelter for the night, but I heard him declare
he would have no broken-kneed beast about his place, and that I should
be taken away on the morrow to be sold. He carried out his threat, and
early on the morrow a small ferret-faced man came and led me away before
I had an opportunity of having a parting glance at my mistresses. This
act I have always believed to be in accordance with Mr. Crawshay’s
general conduct towards his wife and daughter; it was one more link in
the chain of unkind deeds with which he had burdened their lives. Mr.
Crawshay knew his wife and daughter were fond of me, and would gladly
have kept me in spite of my misfortune; but the opportunity for an
unkindness offered, such as could safely be performed in the face of the
world, and he seized it. Strange it is, but true, that some men will
spend a deal and go far out of their way to give pain, when they could
bestow happiness with less trouble and half the expense.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]




                              CHAPTER IV.
                        I AM SOLD.—MR. HARKAWAY.


The ferret-faced man, before removing me, put some ointment upon my
sores, and painted my legs with something which hid my accident from the
eyes of casual observers; then he led me through the town into the
country, where we joined company with another ferret-faced man who had
several horses of various sizes and ages under his charge. I was tied to
the rest with a halter, and then we jogged quietly along the road, the
two men smoking and chatting as we went along.

My companions were strange to me—strange in the strictest sense of the
word, for they had all been brought up in London, a place I had heard
very little of; but I was certainly not impressed with any favourable
notion of it when I saw their flippant pert ways, and became acquainted
with the style of their conversation. Naturally I, as soon as I joined
company, wished them good day, and made some remark upon the fineness of
the weather and the excellence of the second hay crop. To this they one
and all responded with a sarcastic roll of the eye, and one old horse
most impertinently called me a ‘yokel’—an insult I resented by becoming
perfectly quiet and withdrawing as soon as possible from a company where
I could see I was not particularly wanted.

I gathered from what they said that they had been down to some place
belonging to the ferret-faced man ‘to grass,’ that is, to recruit their
health after a season of very heavy work in town. They all seemed to
like an idle life, but some of them really cared very little for the
country, and generally expressed themselves glad to return to town.

‘Another month here would have killed me,’ said a young horse with a
Roman nose; ‘it is so dreadfully slow, and I cannot live without “fun.”
Of course the fresh air and the green fields and the purer water we get
does us good bodily—but we must feed the _mind_, you know.’

The others agreed to this, and I kept on for a long time thinking and
surmising what sort of food for the mind could be obtained in the great
city. I have learnt since, and I must say that much better food for the
mind—food more wholesome and nourishing—can be obtained in the country
than in the town; but we must not be astonished at poor ignorant horses
expressing such an opinion, when we know that thousands of intelligent
men declare the same thing.

We did not walk the whole way to town—London was a long way off; but on
our arrival at a place much larger than Upton, we were taken to a
tremendous barn-like place roofed in with glass, and filled with large
boxes upon wheels, some of them with chimneys to them, which puffed and
snorted in such a way that I could not help jumping about in a fright,
much to the amusement of my companions. The ferret-faced man, probably
with a view to restore my calmness, beat me about the head with a stick,
and then hustled me into one of the boxes with another horse, and closed
the door.

I found myself shut in with one of the best of my late companions—a
horse who had in snubbing me rather followed the leadership of others
than obeyed the dictation of his own feelings. He told me not to be
alarmed, that there was nothing to fear, and that we were going to
travel about a hundred miles by railway. I asked him what a railway was,
and he told me it was something which man had made to imitate the horse,
to do its work in transmitting men and goods.

‘But it is a very poor imitation,’ he said; ‘they cannot trust it
anywhere off the particular road and rails laid down for it; and there
is no grace, no action in it, and whatever it does it makes a frightful
noise about. I know that any horse would blush to make half the fuss.
When man first made it, he said that he could do without the horse; but
he made a great mistake. Horses,’ added my informant with some pride,
‘have since the establishment of railways become worth double the
money.’

I asked a deal more about this railway, and my companion gave me a very
good general idea of this base but fortunately unsuccessful attempt to
supersede the horse, with which I do not intend to trouble my readers;
and just as he finished, the train started.

Oh! the agony of that journey!—the shaking, the jolting, the screaming,
the roaring, and the noise and rattle of other trains as they passed
us—it was dreadful, especially to me who had never undergone the ordeal
before. My companion suffered less—he had travelled upon, many
occasions, and was more composed. In about four hours we arrived in
London, and I being released, took my first peep at the big city.

The impression was not favourable. The place looked large, and very,
very dirty; the dingy courtyard of the railway station gave me the
heartache to look at it, and the promise of a most miserable place to
live in was fulfilled when the ferret-faced man led me into the streets.
Many horses I have met with, knowing that I have a literary turn of
mind, have asked me to describe the great city; but I always decline to
do so—it defies description: volumes might be written upon every foot of
its paved way, and libraries filled with the wonders of a street. It is
at once a paradise to pleasure-seekers, a desert to the friendless, a
gold mine to the successful, a pit of destruction to the unfortunate; it
contains every vanity and every pleasure of human existence; the
poorest, the richest, the proudest, the meekest—the lost in vice, the
raised in virtue; the very depths of vice, the highest aspiration and
the noblest thought, can alike be found within its gates. Joy, hope,
love, hatred, malice, and despair are all in the shadow of its walls,
and lie hidden in the hearts of men not scattered here and there, but
gathered close together in teeming millions.

The very thought of attempting to describe such a place drives me to
despair: I leave it for an abler horse.

We kept on for half an hour, with nothing but houses on either side, and
then I was led into a paved yard, where I saw a long row of stabling,
all very clean and nice—more so than I could have expected, considering
the place was in the heart of the great city. I spent ten days there,
and then I, with a number of other horses, was put up for sale; but in
the meantime my broken knees had been attended to by a very clever
veterinary surgeon, who put them right in the most astonishing manner. I
heard one of the ferret-faced men declare that it would take a very good
pair of eyes to tell that I had been down, and as far as _my_ sight went
I was perfectly restored. I felt a little weakness, and nothing more.

A great number of people attended the sale, and we were all made very
spruce for the occasion. The grooms trotted us up and down, and made us
show off ourselves to the best advantage. Several of the bystanders
seemed to take a great deal of notice of us, and these I afterwards
noticed were the principal buyers.

One of the horses which accompanied me from Upton was put up first, and
the bidding began—but slowly. Neither the auctioneer—a tall, stout,
florid man—nor the public seemed to think much of him, and after a
little haggling he was knocked down for twenty pounds. As he was led
back to his stall I was led out, and the disgust written upon his face
found vent in words.

‘Twenty pounds!’ he said, with an indignant neigh; ‘there’s a price! If
I had dreamt of such a thing a month ago, I believe I should have
drowned myself in the river.’

I shook my head to express my disapproval of such light talk, but could
say nothing, as the groom who led me gave me a thump with the halter,
and bade me ‘come up’—which I did by breaking into what was really a
very pretty trot.

‘Now here, gentlemen,’ said the auctioneer, ‘is a very valuable lot,
named Blossom, reared by Bayne, of Upton, a man who, as you are fully
aware, never sends a bad lot into the market. This horse is rising four,
and has never been in private hands, but he is thoroughly fit either to
ride or drive. Take a look at him, gentlemen. Don’t be afraid of it; he
can bear it—sound from the tip of his nose to the end of his tail.’

[Illustration: THE AUCTION.]

Oh! the falsehood of this man—to say that I had never been out of
private hands, and that I was thoroughly sound. I really felt as if I
could have kicked him—not very hard, but in such a way as to warn him
not to tell such fibs again. The groom trotted me to and fro, then
pulled up, and a number of men proceeded to examine me.

‘He’s been down, ain’t he?’ asked a short, thick-set man, who spoke in a
husky voice, as if he had a hair or straw in his throat.

‘I believe he knocked himself in the paddock, Mr. Harkaway,’ replied the
auctioneer; ‘a mere graze, though—the skin was barely broken.’

‘He grazed a tenner off him,’ said Mr. Harkaway, with a short laugh;
adding in a whisper to a man, apparently his friend, who stood beside
him, ‘But he is the sort of nag I want; and I will have him.’

The bidding for me, in spite of the signs of my fall, was very brisk,
and I soon ran up to forty pounds; then a few fell away, and I increased
to fifty. At this sum all left me but Mr. Harkaway and a man in a sort
of grazier’s suit, with a face so positively cruel, that I shudder even
now when I think of it. Mr. Harkaway had a dissipated, reckless look,
which reminded me of Richards; and if I could have had my will, I would
have chosen another master; but he was better than the grazier, and I
earnestly hoped that he would show the longer purse.

‘Fifty-five,’ said the grazier.

‘Six,’ said Mr. Harkaway.

‘Seven,’ cried the other.

‘Eight,’ returned Mr. Harkaway.

‘Nine,’ shouted the grazier.

Mr. Harkaway hesitated, and looked at me. I turned an imploring eye upon
him, but I might as well have looked at a brick wall—he was as stupid as
the rest of the men, and did not understand me a bit; but the auctioneer
came to my rescue.

‘Come, Mr. Harkaway,’ he said, ‘put another pound on—you won’t get such
another chance this season; the horse is young, sound, good-tempered,
and ready for any amount of work. Shall I say sixty?’

‘Sixty be it,’ said Mr. Harkaway, and the hammer to my great joy fell.
The grazier seemed to be rather disappointed—his face expressed that
feeling; but he said he was glad he had not bought me, as I was a poor
thing at the best, only fit for a dust cart. This hurt me a little, for
none of us like to be depreciated even by those we despise; but since
then I have heard a story about a fox and some grapes, which
sufficiently explains the insulting expressions of the grazier.

As the rest of the sale has no interest to my readers, or any connexion
with my life, I will pass it over with the simple declaration that it
was a very painful thing to witness. Falsehood and deceit were rampant;
not a single horse was honestly represented to the public, and some poor
things, long past work, were doctored and stimulated for the occasion,
and then solemnly described as horses in excellent condition—fit for any
amount of service. Most of the men collected there were too sharp to be
deceived; but I am afraid that more than one was that day sadly swindled
and deceived by the artful horse-dealer and the glib-tongued auctioneer.

As I have since become thoroughly acquainted with London, I may as well
now call places by their proper names; such a course will help those of
my friends as know the metropolis to a more definite idea of my
wanderings, and assist me in making my story more graphic to the rest of
my readers.

Late in the afternoon Mr. Harkaway fetched me from the horse-dealer’s
yard, and tying my halter to the tail of a common cart, drove away.
There was a big brown horse in the shafts, whom he called ‘Sam’—rather a
knowing-looking animal, I thought, and one certainly accustomed to the
noisy ways of this bewildering place. We travelled over an immense stone
bridge near the Houses of Parliament, and turning to the right went
through a maze of street, for the most part poor, dirty, and miserable,
making me wonder how any one could live in such tumble-down houses. This
was Lambeth, and Lambeth was to be my home; for my new master halted at
a house by the corner of a street a shade better than most we had passed
through, and shouted out for Jim in such a way that I knew the house
must be his own.

[Illustration: LEAVING THE HORSE-DEALER’S YARD.]

[Illustration]




                               CHAPTER V.
                         THE FURNITURE DEALER.


The whole of the front of my master’s house seemed to be devoted to
business. The ground floor was quite open, with furniture of every
description piled up to the ceiling; and from the windows above hung
hearth-rugs, pieces of carpet, long strings of tinware, brushes, and so
on, sufficient in my eyes to supply the entire population of Great
Britain.

He seemed to deal in every household requisite; the number and variety
of articles for sale were quite bewildering, and to an unpractised eye
appeared to be piled up anyhow on either side, without any regard to law
or order, leaving a small narrow lane only to travel in and out.

Down this lane came the boy Jim, Mr. Harkaway’s son and heir, a lad of
twelve years, who hailed his father with a sullen visage, and the
inquiry, ‘Now, then, what do you want?’

‘Take the nags round,’ said Mr. Harkaway, ‘and give ’em both a feed. You
need not be particular with the new one, Blossom—he’s done no work
to-day.’

‘Will he kick?’ asked Jim.

‘Quiet as a lamb,’ replied his father; and the boy, with rather a
suspicious look at me, led Sam round the corner, and I perforce
followed.

Mr. Harkaway’s stable was certainly a most abominable hole, bad enough
to kill any horse fresh from the country with the look of it; but as I
afterwards learnt from Sam and my own sad experience, there were
hundreds of worse places, where even man himself was glad to
dwell—indeed, an entire family lived and slept in a wretched room over
our wretched stable.

Jim gave Sam a pretty good feed, and me a handful of hay; after this he
made up two slovenly beds for us, and retired for the night. I was glad
when he was gone, as I wanted to be alone with Sam, for I was burning
with curiosity to hear what sort of life was in store for me.

Sam attacked the food given to him as if he were in need of it, and went
on munching for some time without a word; and I kept silent, fearing
that any remarks I might make would be deemed intrusive, and thus defeat
the end I had in view. We were only divided by a pole, so that even
lying down it would be easy to converse, and I waited patiently. Sam
munched his food to the last wisp of hay and kernel of corn; then
settling down, condescended to address me.

‘Well, youngster,’ he said, with a sort of grunt, ‘where do you hail
from?’

‘Upton,’ I replied.

‘Country,’ returned Sam. ‘Ah! you will find it different here.’

‘I am afraid so,’ I replied softly, with a sigh.

‘There is a little life here,’ continued Sam, who apparently had not
heard my remark. ‘No trotting about for miles and seeing nothing but
hedgerows and trees and fields full of grass and corn, tantalizing a
hungry horse to death; no brooks to wet your feet and legs by crossing,
and not half the flies to bother you. We have flies, of course, but they
don’t seem half so hungry as they are in the country—it’s the air, I
suppose.’

‘The country air is supposed to give an appetite,’ I remarked, not
caring to say too much in praise of the country at present.

‘That is why I hate it,’ growled Sam. ‘Harkaway goes into the country
sometimes, and brings me home so horribly sharp that I could eat my
halter, but he gives me no more corn: a feed is a feed to him, although
it may not be more than half a feed to me. Harkaway is wretchedly
stupid; but most men are like him.’

I coughed an assent to this, and Sam went on for awhile grumbling about
the short allowance of corn he received, until I thought I might venture
to ask for a little information about my master. Sam, to my joy,
received my inquiries in a very amiable spirit.

‘Harkaway,’ he said, ‘is a furniture dealer, principally second-hand. He
will buy anything, from the lid of a saucepan to an entire house of
furniture, and will gladly sell the same if he can realize a fair or an
unfair profit. He calls it “turning an honest penny;” but honest as it
may be, I have heard him tell the most abominable falsehoods while
transacting the most simple acts of business. He will declare, with all
the solemnity of a man upon oath, that he gave so-and-so for such a
thing, and that he will lose by the transaction, when he knows it did
not cost him half the money, and that he will realize a very respectable
profit.’

‘It is very sad,’ I said.

‘And it is also absurd,’ returned Sam; ‘_for no man believes him_—they
know as well as he does that he sells for profit, and profit alone; as
for any motive of philanthropy, you won’t find such a thing in men of
the Harkaway class.’

‘You say the furniture is second-hand,’ I said; ‘where does he get it
from?’

‘Mostly from homes where _ruin_ has stepped in, an unwelcome guest,’
replied Sam solemnly. ‘When a man gets into difficulties, his landlord
seizes his furniture, and sells it for rent. Upon these occasions the
goods are generally put up by auction, and then Harkaway buys with the
rest of the public. But very often the ruined tenant is not only ruined,
but a man of bad principles; then he calls in my master, sells
everything he has, and goes away with every debt unpaid. These are very
profitable transactions, for he generally gets the goods at his own
price.’

‘But are not some of these seizures oppressive?’ I asked.

‘Very,’ replied Sam. ‘Some landlords are very harsh, and turn the widow
and orphan into the streets without the least remorse.’

‘What becomes of them?’

‘Don’t ask me,’ said Sam, shaking his head; ‘when you have been in
London a year or two, you will have seen enough to guess what becomes of
the helpless and unfortunate.’

‘Tell me something about Mr. Harkaway’s family,’ I said; ‘give me an
idea of his character.’

‘Call him Harkaway—we have no misters this side of the water,’ replied
Sam. ‘So you want an idea of his character and family. Well, here it is.
Harkaway is a sordid, grasping man, who has not an idea beyond making
money; it is never out of his thought—he dreams pounds, shillings, and
pence, I think. His idea of everything is, what is it worth, and what
will it fetch? He would die of despair in Paradise, if there was nothing
to buy and sell. His wife is just like him, and when a bad bargain is
made, which sometimes happens, they mourn together like parents bereaved
of a promising family. Jim is their son. Nursed and cradled upon the
pounds, shillings, and pence idea, he has no love, no sentiment, no
religion—he possesses nothing which helps to make man noble; and I
verily believe that, young as he is, he would sell his parents for five
shillings, if anybody would be rash enough to buy them. He feels no love
or gratitude towards them; he is cold, crafty, and cruel to a terrible
degree; he tortures insects, beats dogs, and pinches children like a
little ogre; and the day is not far distant when he will prove a thorn
in the side of the parents who have made him what he is.’

‘In what way?’ I asked.

‘I cannot precisely tell,’ replied Sam. ‘But such children mostly
develop into lovers of low dissipation; they haunt music halls and low
dancing saloons, spending, in a manner quite at variance with their
sordid nature, the money accumulated by the craft of their parents. I
have known many such, and I can see this boy is already in the downward
road.’

I said I was sorry to hear it, and hoped Sam would prove to be a false
prophet for the boy’s sake. Sam grunted something in reply, and gave out
signs of falling asleep. As I had now learned all I cared to know for
the present, I said no more, and we were soon both enjoying sound
repose.

[Illustration]




                              CHAPTER VI.
                          SAD SCENES OF LIFE.


I was awakened in the morning by a knocking overhead, which Sam, who was
already up and stirring, told me proceeded from the head of the family
in the room above, who was a cobbler. I also heard the tongue of a
loud-talking woman, and the murmur of the voices of several children.

‘How many up there?’ I inquired.

‘Father, mother, and six children,’ replied Sam. ‘The father works hard,
and is a patient, quiet man; but the mother drinks and scolds, and the
home is a wretched one. Home I called it—ah! a poor home it is, and many
a pig would turn up his nose at it.’

Mr. Harkaway and his son entered and interrupted our conversation. Jim,
under the eye of his father, gave us a fairish grooming and a feed of
corn; then I was taken out, harnessed, and put to my first day’s work in
the furniture line. Mr. Harkaway drove me to a house in the Old Kent
Road, with the walls all plastered with bills, and leaving Jim in charge
of the cart, went in.

Everything was so novel to me that the time passed very quickly. A
street in London or the suburbs is a perfect panorama to any observant
creature, and no one need languish for want of food for the mind. The
faces alone are sufficient to amuse and interest any thoughtful horse or
man. Watch two as they meet and salute, and you will see whether they be
friend or foe. Mark their style of greeting, their faces as they meet
and part, and you will have a very good idea of the true nature of the
feeling between them. The varieties of life are endless, the shades of
emotion numberless, and he who cares to study the book of nature may
read on throughout his days, and find in the end that he has but
imperfectly scanned a single page.

There was much to study in the other horses I met with daily, and the
dogs too were very interesting; but my great study was man, and I shall
devote the principal part of these pages to him. I hope my experience of
our lord and master was a very exceptional one, but I am sorry to say
that I found very little good in him.

My life with Mr. Harkaway was for the most part very monotonous; he
worked me very hard, and fed me as little as was consistent with the
amount of work required of me. Sometimes Sam and I were taken out
together in a large van to move the goods and chattels of some
tradesman; but as a rule we were employed apart on small jobs, Mr.
Harkaway driving me, and Sam being under the guidance of that atom of
vice, the boy Jim. I do not care to speak ill of any one, but I must say
that the training of this lad was fatal to every good quality which must
have been born in him. He was cruel, crafty, and fond of low
self-indulgence; he smoked and even drank with men—some of whom were old
and grey, and ought to have checked the boy in his evil ways.

Sometimes it happened that I fell into his hands, and his father took
Sam, and then I had a very pretty day of it. He would make me gallop
until I flagged, and then beat me until I galloped again, and this with
a heavy load behind me too, without the least remorse; and often I have
returned to the stable in such a condition that I did not expect to
leave it again alive.

I used to complain to Sam, but he said it was a common mode of treatment
towards horses in London, and that thousands died yearly from overwork
and neglect, or gave in with a broken heart, the result of unnecessary
cruelty.

‘A good horse does not need the whip,’ he said; ‘but there are some
people who use it upon every possible occasion. If a horse is tired,
they lash him without mercy—they must have an idea that there is virtue
in the whipcord, and that it gives us a renewal of the strength we have
expended in their service.’

‘That wretched boy, Jim,’ I remarked, ‘must use a deal of whipcord.’

‘That boy is fond of giving pain,’ returned Sam; ‘if he is grooming me,
and wants me to stand over, he does not say so, but to save his tongue
kicks me in the ribs as if I were a log of wood or a feather bed. I have
known the day when I would have repaid him amply, but this miserable
life has taken all the spirit out of me. Heigho!’

‘You have had a very hard life,’ I said.

‘Very,’ replied Sam. ‘I was born in the country, but left it quite
young. A dealer, Putney way, broke me in; he was celebrated for such
work, and a cruel fellow he was. The bits he used were fearful, and I
can almost feel his spurs now; as for his whip, it used to cross my ribs
like a thin band of red-hot iron—ugh! What horse could stand it? So we
all gave in; and he was celebrated as a trainer of horses. Isn’t it
disgusting!’

‘Men will be wiser some day,’ I said consolingly. ‘How old are you,
Sam?’

‘Somewhere about twelve,’ said Sam; ‘not at all old for a horse well
used—but I am almost worked out. I heard Harkaway tell his wife to-day
that I was scarcely worth my feed. Well! the knacker may come for aught
I care.’

‘What is a knacker?’ inquired I.

‘A horse _murderer_,’ replied Sara. ‘When a horse gets old and past
work, this man is sent for, or we are taken to him. In either case it is
his business to kill us, and he makes very short work of it. But we are
useful to the end; they make shoes, glue, and all sorts of useful things
out of our very carcases; and if man had any real love or gratitude in
his composition, he would treat us all well when we are alive.’

‘But all masters are not cruel, Sam.’

‘No: many are very kind, and keep their stables in better condition than
they do their cottages for the labouring poor; and some keep both horse
and labourer well, but these are the exception, and not the rule. For my
part, I do not care for a rich master; give me a quiet family of the
middle class, living, let us say, at Finchley, Hampstead, or somewhere
about eight miles the north of London; these are the people who feed and
treat a horse well.’

‘Were you ever in such a family, Sam?’

‘No; but once I was almost bought by a gentleman of that class, but the
chance went by, and I am now too old to hope for such a thing. I have,
however, heard a deal of this life, and I am sure nothing could be more
agreeable. Now you are a likely fellow to drop upon this sort of thing,
if ever Harkaway makes up his mind to sell you.’

The picture drawn by Sam pleased me very much, and I earnestly hoped
that such a lot might befall me.

So my life passed on. I dragged furniture about—now from a general sale,
now at midnight from a fraudulent debtor’s house, and once from a ruined
home, where the law had deprived the widow and fatherless of the
comforts of life. Sometimes Mr. Harkaway beat me very cruelly; but he
was generally sparing of the whip, as he had an idea that it knocked
some of the value off a horse—as rubbing removes gilt from gingerbread;
still he did not hesitate to overload me, and gave me such burdens to
bear that I often felt I must die beneath them. Yet I kept on, supported
by youth, I suppose, and endured this life for four long years.

During this time I had not forgotten my place of birth, or those
connected with it. Of my mother I thought a great deal; but I had no
anxiety on her account, as I had often heard Mr. Bayne declare that he
intended to keep her all his life. Rip was very often in my mind, and a
thousand times I wondered what had become of him, with a yearning such
as one true friend feels for another. I loved Rip; he was so full of
life, so spirited, so brilliant in action, that any one with an eye for
beauty must have admired him. Ah, noble Rip! I did indeed love you, and
wonder if the humble companion of your youth, pining in the dingy stable
of a furniture dealer, ever entered your thoughts. Nor did I forget the
beauty of the scene where I was born: the paddock, the stream, the old
mill, and the rich surrounding foliage oft rose before me, and never
faded away again without leaving behind an aching heart. Often and often
I have, in fancy, smelt the sweet meadow flowers, and heard the
melodious beating of Rip’s feet upon the soft turf, as he gaily pranced
about the field; and such memories, if they have brought pain, have had
a softening influence too, and I have lain down to sleep a sadder but a
better horse.

The four years gave me a good knowledge of the great metropolis, as
business at various times took me to every part of it; and the more I
knew, the more I wondered at the magnitude of the place. I have learnt
more since, and I have not ceased to wonder.

About this period a very terrible thing happened. I had been out all day
with my master, and was back in the stable quite worn-out, thankful for
the prospect of rest, when Jim, now a morose, sullen, dissipated young
man, came into the stable, and without putting any harness upon me led
me away. The act was so novel that my mind became full of vague terror,
and the terrible knackers talked of by Sam arose before my eyes; but I
dismissed the thought as a piece of folly—for I was yet active and full
of work, and Mr. Harkaway was not the man to waste capital by useless
slaughter—and looked about me for a more reasonable solution of the
mystery.

With his head down, Jim Harkaway slouched beside me, giving no clue, and
I wondered in vain as we walked the length of several streets, and came
at last into the presence of a small crowd of people. An opening was
made for Jim, and he led me through. The first thing I saw was a
cartload of furniture resting upon the shafts; the next, a horse lying
in the road, quite still.

The shock was dreadful. I read the truth at once. Poor Sam was dead—had
died in the midst of his daily duty. It was indeed terrible, but I found
no tears then. My sorrow was tempered with a dawning conviction that
this sudden death was to him a merciful and happy release. In the
morning before starting he had complained of a pain in his side, but
such a form of suffering was common to us both, and I did not dream of
finding him dead that night. Jim harnessed me in, and drove away,
leaving poor Sam in charge of a man in a very dirty blue slop—a
knacker’s assistant, I have since been informed.

That was a long night for me, and I slept but little. Sam, and Rip, and
mother, and home were alternately in my thoughts through the long dark
hours; and when the morning came, it found me but little prepared for
work. Prepared or not, there was the work to do, and during that and
many days following I toiled early and late, until I began to give out
signs of really breaking down; and then Mr. Harkaway, still influenced
by the pounds, shillings, and pence idea, kindly sent me into the
country for a month’s rest and fresh green food.

[Illustration]

[Illustration: DEATH OF POOR SAM.]

[Illustration]




                              CHAPTER VII.
                    MY NEW MASTER, BENJAMIN BUNTER.


I was sent down to a place about two miles from Blackheath, on the
Forest Hill side, and spent the days of my leisure in a field, sharing
the welcome grass with half a dozen cows belonging to a local dairyman.
It was almost as bad as being alone, having no other horse for a
companion; for the cows, not very conversational among themselves, did
not care to accost a stranger who spoke a language they did not
understand.

It was not like my early home, but it was a paradise compared to the
dungeon I lived in down Lambeth way, and I would have been well content
to have spent the rest of my days there; but I had a great amount of
work left in my bones yet, and it was not to be.

When the month was up, Jim Harkaway came to fetch me. I am sorry to say
that he was rather the worse for beer when he arrived, and before we got
home he was in a horrible state of intoxication. We met Mr. Harkaway
near home, and the way his son addressed him was very shocking; you
would not hear it from any creature save man—the noblest in his best
condition, in his fall the most degraded.

High words ensued between father and son, and several people stopped one
after the other; but they all went on again, saying that it was ‘only
old Harkaway and his precious son,’ so I concluded that these scenes
between them were growing common. In the end Mr. Harkaway wrenched the
bridle away from his son, and led me up a turning opposite the shop. I
was surprised at not going home, and still more surprised when he halted
before a greengrocer’s shop, and Mr. Harkaway asked a stout woman if her
husband was at home.

‘He’s round the yard,’ was the reply; ‘but he will be here in a minute.’

In less than a minute the husband came—a short, thick-set man, deeply
pock-marked, and dressed in corduroy, with a flaring red silk
handkerchief round his throat.

‘Mornin’, Mr. Harkaway,’ he said.

‘Morning,’ replied my master. ‘I have brought Blossom to you myself. Jim
is going on worse than ever.’

‘Sorry to hear it,’ said the other. ‘But you ain’t half sharp enough
with him. If he was a son of mine, I would give him the key of the
street, as sure as my name is Benjamin Bunter.’

‘Mrs. Harkaway clings to him,’ said Mr. Harkaway nervously; ‘she is a
woman, and he is an only son; but it is a great trial—the money he
wastes is enough to break one’s heart.’

Not a word about the vice of the youth—it was still pounds, shillings,
and pence to the furniture dealer.

“Well, what are we to say for Blossom?’ said the greengrocer, stroking
my fore-leg with his hand.

‘He is worth thirty,’ replied Mr. Harkaway. ‘I am only selling him
because I was obliged to buy two horses to carry on my business while he
was away. He is worth thirty pounds.’

‘You mean twenty,’ said Benjamin Bunter shortly.

‘No—thirty, I mean.’

‘Twenty.’

In this style they haggled for awhile, and the bargain ended in the
usual way; I became the property of Benjamin Bunter, greengrocer, for
the sum of twenty-five pounds sterling.

In this manner I parted from the furniture dealer, and we never met
again; but I learnt his fate in a casual way, and I may as well give it
here. He was killed in a railway accident on his way back from a country
sale, and having died without a will (he had put it off a hundred times
on the ground of the expense), the better part of his property fell into
the hands of his son, who justified his worldly training by squandering
the money like dirt, and dying, while yet in his youth, mad with drink.
What became of the mother I never knew.

Let me turn to my new master, Benjamin Bunter, and endeavour to describe
him to my reading friends as I afterwards knew him. This master of mine
was what is known as a ‘free living man’—he made a deal of money in his
business, and spent it almost as soon as he got it. He was very fond of
eating and drinking, and delighted in such pleasure as could be found on
race-courses, at pigeon matches, and so on. His wife had precisely
similar tastes, and they jogged on very well together; and the
half-dozen children they had brought into the world were, as far as food
and clothing went, well cared for, but all else was entirely neglected.

Let me speak of the man as I found him. Benjamin Bunter had a kind
heart, and he fed me liberally; but he was a thoughtless man, and many a
time he has, without the slightest regard for my good or ill, kept me
all day without food at a pigeon match, and then taken up half a dozen
men with him for ‘a lift’ home. He would also drive his wife and
children to Epping for a day’s outing, and the exhaustion I have felt
after the efforts required on such occasions was very great.

With regard to the pigeon-shooting I wish to say, without going into the
subject, that I think it a very cruel and unmanly sport. The contest is
not equal in any way. What can be more cowardly than to box up a poor
helpless thing for awhile, then pretend to give it liberty and shoot it
as soon as it shows its head? Call that ‘sport’—I wonder men are not
ashamed of it!

I was employed in the business mostly, and very often I was in the
Borough Market as early as four o’clock, and there I met with many
horses and ponies engaged in the same trade; some were well cared for
and fed liberally, but others had cruel or indifferent masters. Some of
the men were given to bad language, and used the most fearful oaths
whenever their animals did even the slightest thing wrong. Generally the
fault lay with the masters, who perhaps had a little difficulty in
fixing their carts among the rest, and instead of going quietly and
easily to work, out came the whip, and the horse’s head was wrenched
about, until he was quite bewildered. Who can wonder if the poor
creature backed into the wrong place, or showed a tendency to go
opposite to the direction required? Man talks a deal about reason, but
he too often forgets to act upon it, especially when he is dealing with
such poor creatures as myself.

The scenes in the market were very exciting and amusing as a rule, but
many of them were painful. Foul language was sometimes followed by a
brutal fight, which gave amusement to a thoughtless crowd, until the
police appeared. Whenever such a scene took place I noticed that the
fighting men were invariably the worse for drink; the sober buyers,
sellers, and labourers always did their work quickly and went away
quietly.

I am now coming to an episode in my life which requires an entire
chapter to itself, for it opened up to me a new train of thought with
regard to the connection between horse and man, and the really important
influence they have upon each other. One night, late in the month of
May, Benjamin Bunter came into my stable and gave me an extra grooming,
combing my coat and plaiting my mane with wonderful care. While he was
at work Mrs. Bunter entered with a large bonnet covered with flowers in
her hand. Mrs. Bunter, by the way, had a great love for bright colours,
and was generally a walking object of envy to her less fortunate
neighbours.

‘There, Ben,’ she said, holding it up, ‘I think that will do.’

‘It’s prime,’ was his reply. ‘There won’t be many bonnets like that upon
the course. Everybody will know as we drive along that we are going to
the races. Come over, Blossom—steady there.’

[Illustration: I AM GROOMED BY BENJAMIN BUNTER.]

So I was going to the races. Here was a prospect of something new to me,
and I immediately thought of Rip’s great-grandfather, who had nearly won
something or other many years ago; and then I wondered what that
something was, and in what way it was contested; and then I wondered
what had become of Rip, and I continued wondering long after Benjamin
Bunter had finished work and retired to his supper in the little parlour
behind his well-stocked shop.

Sleep was almost a stranger to my eyes that night. Stimulated by
excitement, I continued to think and wonder until the first grey light
of the morning came stealing through the window of my stable, and then I
fell into a fitful doze, to dream that I was a race-horse of the purest
blood, famous for my victories throughout the length and breadth of the
land.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]




                             CHAPTER VIII.
                          THE GREAT CARNIVAL.


In the morning my master was up early, but he did not go to market, and
it was quite nine o’clock when he harnessed me to the cart and drove
round to the front door. There was a small knot of neighbours interested
in our starting, and I found that a plumber and his wife were going with
us. Two chairs were put into the back of the cart for the use of the
ladies, and the men sat in front, with the two eldest Bunter children on
the floor, making the party six in number. In addition to this was a bag
of cut hay and corn for my consumption, and a large hamper of food and
drink for the party.

I gathered from the conversation of the men that they were both fond of
betting, and that Mr. King had received overnight a ‘tip,’ that is,
information concerning a certain horse, which would enable him to make a
large sum of money that day.

‘I am told that Melrose is sure to win,’ he whispered in a confidential
tone to my master while they were waiting for the ladies. ‘Wigen wrote
to me to put every penny I have upon it.’

‘I go with you,’ returned Benjamin Bunter. ‘I always thought there was
something meant with Melrose. Now then, here is the missis; give her a
hand, will you.’

Mr. King gallantly helped the ladies to their seats, then put the
children in, and we started. A few idle boys gave us a cheer, the
neighbours waved their hands, and then we went through the streets at a
smart pace.

The load behind me was rather heavy, but I did not mind that, as there
was, in addition to my curiosity being aroused, the prospect of a peep
at the green fields and a few hours’ fresh air. In half an hour we had
left the worst part of the bricks and mortar behind us, and were
travelling among the neat suburban villas of prosperous tradesmen.

It was a bright fresh morning, and everything looked nice—villas, trees,
flowers, everything, down to the butchers’ carts which we came upon now
and then waiting at the garden gates of the houses. My party enjoyed
everything; they were all in high spirits, and I have no doubt that Mrs.
Bunter made the most of her bonnet, which was a far superior thing to
the article worn by her friend Mrs. King. In spite of this, however, the
ladies were excellent friends.

About eight miles from town we pulled up at a roadside inn, and my
master fetched out a pot of beer. I felt this to be the first hitch in a
promising day; not that I personally object to beer, for I do not know
even the taste of it, but I have seen the effects of it upon man, and
they are anything but pleasant. Never by any chance does it elevate or
improve, and too often it ruins and degrades—and yet men will drink it.
Here is something which I am sure man himself fails to comprehend.

Our halt was brief, and we went on through quiet lanes and broad,
well-kept roads garnished with fragrant hedges and tall, graceful trees,
sometimes passing and at other times being passed by other parties
greater or smaller in number, and they all seemed to be in the highest
possible spirits, shouting and laughing as if the world had nothing in
it beyond going to the races, and they had left no sorrow or sin or
shame in the great city behind them.

By-and-by we came upon a stupendous hill, and here a boy sitting upon a
horse volunteered to help us up the hill for sixpence. Benjamin Bunter
was in an excellent humour, and the offer was accepted; the horse was
attached to the shafts of the cart, and we moved forward.

Now I do not wish to speak ill of any of my race, but I must out with
the truth at all times—that helping horse was a disgrace to his fellows.
He was as cunning as a fox, and made a deal of show, pretending to
strain his muscles and spluttering his feet about, but he did not pull a
bit. He was as bad as the boy upon his back, who shouted and pretended
to urge him on, while he really encouraged him to hold back. I ventured
to remonstrate in a whisper to my helper, but he only answered with a
short contemptuous laugh, which I have no doubt Benjamin Bunter
interpreted as a cough, and I had to do the work of the hill in reality
alone. At the top my master paid the boy the sixpence, and the precious
pair went back in search of other victims.

After a brief rest we proceeded, and presently came upon the downs where
the races were held, and my master guided me past a long line of white
booths, erected for refreshment and various purposes. In some I have
been told men gamble and fight, but I have never seen such things, and I
only pretend to give the results of my actual experience. There was one
large wooden erection which Benjamin Bunter pointed out to his wife as
the Grand Stand; it was empty then, but I saw it later filled with
ladies and gentlemen most magnificently dressed.

We were very early, and my master secured a good place near the ropes,
after paying ten shillings for the privilege. He and Mr. King then got
down and went away, and Mrs. Bunter brought out a bottle full of rum.
She had a sip, Mrs. King had a sip, and the children were induced to wet
their lips with it. All this seemed to me to be very shocking, but there
were many cartloads of people around doing much the same thing, and
nobody cried out against it.

Turning from Mrs. Bunter and her friend, I took a look at the scene
around me. Like the great city, it defies description. Early as it was
thousands had already assembled, and the air was full of shouts and
laughter, and cries that some might have thought the outburst of joy;
but _I_ could detect a wail beneath it which told me that the joy was
after all but a hollow thing. I was now old enough and had seen enough
to read man at a glance, and as the thousands walked by I scanned their
faces and read no real satisfaction there. They were hilarious it is
true, but they lacked the contented expression which true happiness
brings. But even the apparently happy were in the minority; the main
part of this throng were eager, restless creatures, who walked quickly
up and down, and talked in low whispers to their friends, or scanned
little pocket-books with a forlorn look, as if they read their doom
therein. ‘Knave and gamester’ were written in the looks of many—alas!
too many—of the young as well as old. Every amusement presented by the
itinerant took the gambling form—betting was the order of the day, from
pence to pounds. Some held up purses and talked of large sums to be sold
for a shilling, and the thoughtless, untutored novice in race-course
ways bought them, to find themselves deceived, and to hear the laughter
of those who find fun in a miserable lie. Wheels of fortune, spinning
jennies, cards, dice, all were there, and vice, forgetting her shame,
walked boldly in the sunlight.

Opposite, the big wooden stand and others on either side were filling,
and a babel of voices rose from the shifting mass. This, I was told
afterwards, was the noise of betting men, who risked their money—some
all their wealth, honour, good name—on the race to come. Some of the
noblest names in our land have been blackened in the betting ring. Some
of the richest among the people have left their all upon the
race-course, and gone home to shame and ruin. And yet men call racing
‘pleasure;’ but who can reason with them on the subject when they call
pigeon-slaughter by the name of ‘sport’?

It was a strange motley scene, interesting in many points, but painful
in most, for I could see that there was more folly than fun in
everything around me; and folly, every thinking creature, horse and man,
knows, is but the herald of ruin and shame.

I was musing on the scene when my thoughts were interrupted by a
carriage which drew up beside me; it was open, and contained two young
fellows barely arrived at the recognised age of manhood. Both were well
dressed and in the highest possible spirits. I was immediately
interested in them; but my attention was withdrawn by the horse in the
brougham, who was in front of me—we stood in fact face to face.

There was a form a little more developed than I had hitherto known it,
but quite familiar, from the tip of the well-shaped nose to the end of
the ample tail. No need for that amused expression of face to guide me
to a recognition; I knew him at once—it was my old friend Rip, and
involuntarily I uttered a loud neigh of joyful surprise.

‘Hush! pray do,’ remonstrated Rip. ‘Don’t be so vulgar. You really
astonish me with your want of breeding.’

‘I was overcome with joy,’ I apologised. ‘Oh, Rip! how often have I
longed for such an hour as this!’

‘Dear old Blossom,’ said Rip affectionately, ‘it is just like you to
think of your old friends. No one, looking at your quiet ways, would
imagine that you had half the emotion in you; but your sort of emotion
is like still water—it runs deep.’

‘But where have you been—and what sort of masters have you had?’ I
asked.

‘I have had only one master since I knew you,’ replied Rip. ‘Squire
Tracey bought me of Mr. Bayne, and I am with Squire Tracey still. I have
brought his two eldest sons here to-day.’

‘From Upton?’ I exclaimed.

‘Stupid old Blossom,’ said Rip, with a good-natured smile in his eyes.
‘No, Upton is a deal too far away; we came from town this morning. We
always spend the fashionable months in the great metropolis—West-end of
course. I have never cast eyes upon the east side of Temple Bar.’

‘And they treat you well, Rip?’

[Illustration: THE RACE-COURSE.]

‘Nobly—from the squire to the groom,’ replied Rip. ‘As for the groom, he
is so kind to me that I positively love the fellow. He carries a whip as
part of the furniture of a brougham, but I really cannot tell you if
there is a lash upon it or not.’

‘I congratulate you upon your good fortune,’ I said, repressing a sigh.
‘My lot has not been so pleasant as I could wish, but I won’t complain.’

‘There never was such a horse as you to endure,’ returned Rip; ‘and yet
it’s not from want of spirit; you have a tremendous deal of work in you,
and you always did your duty nobly.’

‘It is only right to do so, Rip,’ I said, feeling rather foolish over
this unmerited praise; and then at his request I gave him a brief
outline of my life, and just as I concluded, Benjamin Bunter and his
friend the plumber returned.

‘Melrose is first favourite,’ he said to his wife. ‘I have put the money
in, and we are safe to win. The men who ought to know say he can’t
lose;’ and the man’s face beamed as if the race was already over and he
a winner.

‘Poor fool,’ said Rip contemptuously; ‘one of the numberless thousands
who make the betting knaves of the turf rich. He is a sporting
greengrocer—earns his money with toil, gets a tip or hint from a trainer
or jockey, who perchance knows no more than he, and risks not only his
own money, but that which is due to others in the way of business. I
have seen many like him, Blossom, and I know full well the expression in
his face—he is elated because he is hopeful; but if his hopes in this
case are foiled, he is a ruined man.’

‘I hope not,’ I said.

‘It is a fact,’ replied Rip. ‘See how he licks his lips and nervously
presses his hands together; now he takes a sip from the bottle, as if
_that_ could help him. Poor fellow! there are thousands like him to-day
upon this course, and in an hour more than two-thirds of them will
realize their folly, and return home dejected, ruined, miserable—unless
they drink, which but wards off the pain for the time, and brings it
back tenfold on the morrow. But hush! here come the horses—the noblest
and most graceful of our race.’

Then there filed past upon the course, which the police had previously
cleared, a line of the most beautiful horses I had ever seen, each with
a rider in a coloured jacket and cap upon his back. The glossy coats of
the horses shone like rippling water in the sunlight, and their light
fawn-like limbs trod the turf as if they supported creatures of air.
Their appearance was greeted with a shout. The ladies uttered little
ecstatic cries of admiration; but the men were busy looking out for some
particular horse on which their fortunes that day depended.

‘There—there,’ I heard Benjamin Bunter cry, ‘that’s Melrose; isn’t he a
beauty? There is not another horse in the field like him. The red jacket
wins!’

Melrose’s rider wore a red jacket, and many a tongue shouted out to him
a word of encouragement as he went by; but other horses and riders had
their supporters, who were as sanguine as Benjamin Bunter as to their
success.

The horses passed on, and left the belt of turf called ‘the course’
perfectly clear. Half an hour’s restlessness ensued—the police moved up
and down, urging the crowd to keep quiet and not break in upon the open
space. Every face was turned to the starting point, and every eye was
full of eager hope. Then came a cry, ‘They’re off!’ and ere I had fully
realized the meaning of these words they came flashing by—a line of
panting horses, with frantic riders remorselessly using both whip and
spur. The colours of the men were mingled, and I failed to single out
the red jacket of Melrose as the body swept past me, and the next moment
the air was full of shouts and cries, and the race was over.

Then came a brief lull, and I saw some numbers hoisted on a board
opposite. Benjamin Bunter, with a borrowed field glass, scanned the
figures for a moment, and then fell back with a groan.

‘I thought so,’ said Rip quietly to me; ‘your master is ruined. Melrose
is not one of the first three. I saw him bringing up the tail of the
race, looking as if every bit of life had been beaten out of him.’

I made no reply, for my thoughts were laden with sorrow: on the whole my
master had been kind to me, and his misfortune was mine. Under any
circumstances I must have grieved for a ruined man, but the ruin in this
case was brought near home to me, and my heart was very heavy indeed.

I was made sad too by what I saw and heard around me. Thousands of
tongues were busy with the race, and disappointment was the general
tone. It was horrible to hear the cursing heaped upon the horses. Some
cursed the winner, some cursed the losers; but no one in my hearing
spoke one kind word for the horses who had shown such matchless
powers—not a word of their beauty, or the ease and grace of their
movements, or of the spirit they had shown in the efforts made.

After the first excitement of the race was over, hampers were unpacked
in all directions, and both men and women began to eat and drink—the
winners to celebrate their success, the losers to drown their grief, and
the ruined to stave off thought until the morrow. Wandering minstrels
began their songs—women and girls in tawdry finery danced upon the turf
to the music of cracked instruments—sunburnt gipsies with babies in
their arms stole from carriage to carriage and told fortunes as truthful
as the ‘tip’ my unhappy master had received; women laughed, men shouted,
children cried; the cornet, the drum, the flute, the tambourine—one and
all lent their sounds to the general tumult, and all was riot and
confusion.

My eyes ached, my ears tingled, and lifting my head above this
distracting scene, I fixed my gaze upon the clear blue heaven above. Oh!
how calm and peaceful—how glorious—how beautiful! and far away against a
patch of white cloud I saw a speck, and knew by its fluttering movement
that it was a skylark singing; but his song was drowned in the popping
of champagne corks, the beating of drums, and the thousand and one other
noises of the worshippers of Folly. The votaries of the race thought as
little of the grateful hymn of the bird as they did of the great Giver
to whom it was instinctively addressed. ‘Oh! man, man,’ I cried, ‘look
up and read your lesson there!’

I became so absorbed in my reflections that I had forgotten Rip, until
he gave utterance to a very indignant snort, and asked me if I had taken
up with sulky ways. This I laughingly denied, and Rip, after pretending
for a moment to be very angry with me, chatted on about old associations
and his present life, until his two young masters, who had been away for
awhile, came back again. They seemed to be indignant and vexed about
something, and the younger, as he put his foot upon the step, said
aloud—

‘John told me that Madcap was sure to win—and he was not one of the
first three.’

The same song my master sung, but the name was different. Melrose was
sure to win, Madcap was sure to win, and neither of them were near it.
Surely there must be roguery somewhere.

Rip’s young masters were so annoyed that they would stay no longer, and
I had barely time to say a few affectionate words to him ere they gave
their servant orders to drive away. Rip, in obedience to a jerk of the
reins, turned round, nodding to me carelessly as he did so; but I saw a
tear in his eye, and knew that a kind and tender heart lay under his
flippant air. I am very fond of Rip, and I am sure he was fond of me.

My party by this time were in a very bad way; all had drunk a deal more
than was good for them, and I heard Mr. Benjamin Bunter challenge Mr.
King to fight. The ladies, however, interposed, and nothing came of it.
After this they had more drink, and my master sang a song in a loud,
cracked voice, and cut a lot of antics which made him appear very
foolish. A few thoughtless people laughed and encouraged him, but I saw
more than one man look at him with bitter contempt.

I do not care to say any more about the race-course, the very memory of
it sickens me now—it was such a seething mass of folly, drunkenness, and
vice; but I know that I was very glad when we turned our backs upon it,
and started for home.

[Illustration: RETURNING FROM THE RACE-COURSE.]

The road was crowded with vehicles full of men and women, most of whom
were dressed up with paper feathers, false noses, as if the great object
of the day’s holiday was to make themselves as ridiculous as possible. A
great many in the garb of gentlemen were very much the worse for drink,
and amused themselves with pelting the other wayfarers with bags of
flour, cheap pincushions, and similar acts of folly—unworthy of men.

A mile from the course we got into a quiet road; but there were still
many carts and carriages before and behind, and every public-house we
came to was full. I can see now the number of horses waiting patiently
outside for the masters who were drinking themselves into a mad or
maudlin state within; I can hear their oaths and repetitions of their
curses upon the horses which failed to win; I can smell the smoke of the
cheap filthy tobacco which curled in great clouds from the open doors
and windows;—that hateful scene and hateful day has haunted me ever
since, and will haunt me till I die.

We stopped at many of these public-houses on our way home, and it was
late—almost dark—when we arrived at Clapham, and then it began to rain.
The clouds had been lowering for some time—but to men who are the worse
for drink clouds and sunshine are the same. The people who had assembled
to see the holiday-makers return were dispersed by it, and when we
reached home even the streets were clear.

The rain was now falling fast; the whole of the party were soaked with
rain; and when Benjamin Bunter pulled up at his door, his friends the
Kings got out without a word. They just nodded a good-night, and as they
passed on I heard Mr. King mutter to his wife that he hated going out in
a common cart—there was no comfort in it, and it was not fit for a
respectable tradesman.

Poor Mrs. Bunter! her bonnet was quite spoiled, and she was crying in a
weak maudlin manner as her husband helped her out. He was in a sulky
humour, and when the children came out to greet him he asked them what
they meant by sitting up so late, and bade them go to bed at once. Mrs.
Bunter supported this rebuff, and went even farther, threatening
personal chastisement if she saw them again that night.

My master put me into the stable, tossed a feed into the manger, raked
out my bed in a careless manner, and left me for the night. I was very
wet and uncomfortable; but a horse has no right to complain, so I
munched my food quietly, and made the best of a bad case.

Mr. Bunter’s back parlour window was near the stable: the night was
warm, and the window was open, which enabled me to hear a deal of what
was said. When my master went in his wife was crying still. He asked her
what was the matter in a coarse brutal tone, such as I had never heard
him use before. She replied in a querulous angry voice, bewailing the
loss of her bonnet and the bad behaviour of Mrs. King, who had said
something or other of a very personal nature on the way home.

Then there was a silence for awhile, interrupted only by the
half-stifled sobs of Mrs. Bunter. This silence was suddenly broken by my
master, who had apparently been brooding. I heard him rise up from his
seat, and kicking over the chair, tell his wife to hold her crying about
her bonnet and save her tears for something worse, for he had that day
betted with and lost money which was not his own, and he was a bankrupt
and a ruined man.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]




                              CHAPTER IX.
                            HERE AND THERE.


Five days later the bailiffs were upon the premises, and a week
afterwards I was put down in the inventory and catalogue of an
auctioneer as Lot 96. Everything was to be sold off, for Mr. Benjamin
Bunter had told the truth when he informed his wife that he was a ruined
man. Always a careless liver, he had allowed debt to accumulate, and
when the pinch came, sought to retrieve his position by gambling. The
result was what any sane man might have expected—he made matters worse,
adding disgrace to his misfortunes.

Several of the neighbours came to look at me, and I heard many of them
speak with great censure upon the fact of my master having so near his
bankruptcy wasted his money upon the race-course; but with all of them
the sin lay with the betting so near his bankruptcy—against betting
itself they said not a word; indeed I found this fearful evil had taken
very deep root among the people, and that most of them, both high and
low, indulged much or little in the baneful habit.

Benjamin Bunter and his wife and children disappeared. I heard it stated
that they were living in a small street near the Borough Market, and
that Bunter was working as a labourer there; whether it was true or not
I cannot say—I never saw them again.

The day of the sale came on, and I was knocked down to a horse
dealer—just such another man as brought me from Upton—for fifteen
pounds, and he, even while he was paying the money, loudly declared that
I was a bad bargain to any man for eight: this is a habit of his class,
and I felt in nowise hurt by the declaration. He took me home, had my
coat trimmed, physicked me a little, and then, as before, I figured in a
general sale.

A publican named Newman bought me, but I was with him only a week—I was
too slow, he said—and then he tried to sell me. Several men came to his
stable, but none cared to strike a bargain, so the publican got up a
raffle, with forty members at ten shillings per head. The humiliation of
being disposed of in this way has haunted me ever since, but like other
things I have learnt to bear it. A Mr. Somerfield won me; but he was a
railway clerk, without either the accommodation for keeping or the time
to use a horse, and I was sold again at once to a chimney sweep.

He took me home, and put me into a stable with a tall bony horse
belonging to a carrier who worked between Hornsey and London. I tried to
make friends with this horse at once, and found that I had no easy task
ahead of me, for my companion, naturally rather inclined to be grumpy,
was furthermore suffering from a very bad cold.

Kind words and patience, however, are capital things, and within an hour
we were chatting confidentially together. From him I learned that the
life of a carrier’s horse was a very hard one—out all weathers, standing
about in the cold and wet, and journeying a long way with very heavy
loads to drag, and sometimes, especially about Christmas time, the work
of the day was not over until past midnight.

‘They don’t think much about our welfare,’ concluded my companion with a
sigh; ‘when one horse is worn-out they buy another, and work him to
death in his turn.’

‘Are worn-out carriers’ horses taken to the—the—ahem!—the knackers?’ I
inquired.

I knew I was upon delicate ground, and tried to put the question as
pleasantly as possible. My companion answered with perfect freedom.

‘Some go to the knacker’s,’ he replied. ‘But very few of us are entirely
worn-out; there is a little life left in us yet, and we go to the cab
proprietors generally for night work.’

‘To run in the night cabs?’

‘Just so.’

‘What sort of work is that?’ I asked.

‘Don’t ask me,’ was the reply, given with a shudder. ‘If it ever be your
lot you will know all about it; if you escape it, better remain in
ignorance of its horrible misery.’

A strange quiver ran through my frame. I did not know then what I know
now, that it was a sympathetic foreshadowing of the life that was to be.

I remained in the stable four days, and during that time saw many people
who were looking after a horse. I was, however, not the horse they
wanted, and none of them were the style of master I wished; so it
happily fell out that I was still on hand at the end of the four days,
when an elderly gentleman came to look at me.

I saw in an instant that this was the master for me. His age was about
sixty, and his face was radiant with love and goodwill; there was a
tenderness in the very way he looked at me, and my heart warmed towards
him the moment he entered the stable.

A man who had charge of the stable came with him, and expressed his
readiness to trot me up and down to show off my action or speed.

‘No, no,’ said the old gentleman; ‘there is no need for that; I can see
it is the horse I want, patient and quiet. My daughter is a great
invalid, and this is just the thing to suit her. I know the price, and
the price will suit me. What is his name?’

‘Blossom,’ replied the man.

‘Poor Blossom,’ returned the old gentleman, patting me tenderly; ‘long
passed the spring-time of life, but a good creature, I warrant, still.
Send him to Maythorn Lodge tonight. Graham is my name.’

As he left the stable my heart bounded with joy at the prospect of such
a master. Here at last was a hope of a long-encouraged dream to be
realized—a home where I could end my old days in happiness and peace. I
lay among the straw revolving this bright, pleasant hope again and again
within my mind, half sleeping, half waking, with a sense of being at
_rest_. I pondered thus until the evening drew nigh, and a stableboy
made his appearance to take me home.

The lad bore a distant resemblance to his master; but it was in
expression and not in feature. The kindness of the employer had set a
seal upon the employed, and I read contentment and happiness upon every
feature. If any confirmation was wanted as to the nature of the home I
was going to, this gave it to me; and with a heart fast beating with joy
and hope, I stepped out lightly close behind my guide.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]




                               CHAPTER X.
                          MY GENTLE MISTRESS.


I found Maythorn Lodge all and more than I either desired or expected.
It was called a lodge, but it was in reality a very substantial and
well-built family residence, about two miles on the Finchley Road.

The great tidal wave of bricks and mortar which has since flooded the
green fields of Finchley was yet far away, and the country round about
my new master’s home was very beautiful—almost as beautiful as the place
where I spent the first days of my life. London was not far away it is
true; but we had green trees on one side to shut out the view of the
dismal smoke, and from the other the wind came over Hampstead Heath,
bearing on its bosom the untainted perfume of green meadows and sweet
fields. I had a small, well-kept stable for a residence, and all my
wants were attended to by a lad of fourteen years of age, who in
addition to this helped the gardener in his work. A few words in passing
respecting this boy. I gathered from what I heard that he had been
originally one of the ragged unfortunates of the London streets, and
that Mr. Graham had taken him home as an experiment, to see what could
be done with those wretched outcasts. The experiment was on the whole
satisfactory. The boy—who went by the name of Roberts—was devotedly
attached to his master, and although he had bickerings with the other
servants, especially with the gardener, who most injudiciously cast
reflections upon his origin, he was on the whole a well-conducted youth.
For my own part, I must say he was an excellent lad to me, and we became
very much attached to each other.

Mr. Graham and his daughter were the only members of the household at
home; but there was a son at college, who, as far as reports were
concerned, was a very fine dashing young fellow—an object of great
interest to all in Maythorn Lodge. Miss Graham was, as her father had
declared, a great invalid. It was in the month of May that I took up my
residence at the Lodge, and the weather, warm and balmy as it was,
seemed to be too keen for the delicate frame. I remember her appearing
at the door as I drew up, with her fragile form wrapped up in cloaks and
furs, as if there were no sun shining in the heavens, and the keen
cutting blasts of winter were sweeping up from the adjoining heath. Her
face was beautiful, and there was a colour upon her cheeks which
rivalled the blush on a May-born rose; her eyes—blue, clear, and
thoughtful—were in harmony with the rich mass of golden hair which
clustered o’er her forehead, and fell in masses over her shoulders. But
beneath it all there lay something indefinable, something without a
name, which told me that the young life was fleeting. I read this in her
face, and I saw it plainer in the tender solicitude of the father, and
the anxious, sorrowful look he wore when her face was turned from his.
She came down, and before getting into the carriage stroked me upon the
neck. The touch, feather-like as it was, sent a thrill through my
frame—it was different to anything I had known for years.

‘It is an old horse,’ said Mr. Graham, ‘but a very quiet one. You want
air more than exercise, Nellie dear.’

‘It is a very nice horse, and will suit me,’ she said quietly.

Then they got into the carriage.

[Illustration: MISS GRAHAM ‘STROKED ME UPON THE NECK.’]

I felt by the touch that Miss Graham was driving me—a little experience
soon tells a horse who is behind him; and we soon entered upon a quiet
part of the road, when the gentle strain relaxed, and I was allowed to
have my own way. I trotted on, with an occasional walk, for an hour or
more, and then the reins tightened, and I was turned towards home.

All the way Nellie prattled to her father, and all her talk was what she
would do next summer. Next summer she would be so well and happy.
Archibald—that was her brother—would take his degree and be home for a
holiday; and Harry,—here her voice quivered a little—who loved her, and
was over the sea, would be back again. Next summer was to be everything
to her;—but she had entered upon her last summer here! To all this Mr.
Graham said little; but in every word he uttered I detected a ring of
sorrow and compassion: he knew what many others knew—that with her the
day was far spent, and the night coming on. Oh, how I pitied them both!
and I pitied them the more for the love I bore them—so kind, so gentle,
so tender to me, who had known the rough road of life, and felt the
thorns and briars which grow on every side. This day was but the type of
many. If the sun shone and the wind was soft we invariably went out: not
always the same road, but at all times seeking quiet thoroughfares,
where I was allowed to travel as I pleased. A happy time for me—I had
indeed fallen upon pleasant places. Well fed, well cared for, tenderly
spoken to, treated as a horse _should_ be, the days passed like hours,
and the weeks like days, and so the summer fled. With the autumn came a
change: our drives soon decreased in number, and at last entirely
stopped. This was what I had feared—what I had looked forward to with
dread and sorrow. My young mistress’s days were numbered, and she was—to
use one of the tenderest expressions from the lips of man—going home.
Her father knew, and all around her knew, that there was no hope; but
this doctor was sent for, and that doctor was sent for, and took their
fees, until the last. The only exercise I got was with Roberts, who took
me out for a canter two or three times a week; and it was through the
neighbours, who stopped the lad, to inquire how Miss Nellie was, that I
learnt what I did about her. The death so long threatening came at last.
The time is scored deep upon my memory, and the night my darling
mistress passed away I shall never forget. Her brother—who was studying
hard, so they said—was kept in ignorance of her condition almost to the
last. It was her wish, I believe—one of the many unselfish thoughts of
hers to which I could bear witness; and so when he came, the poor
flickering flame of life was nearly gone. In the afternoon of the
well-remembered day I heard Roberts tell the gardener that Miss Nellie
was not expected to live throughout the night. This aroused my already
absorbing interest, and touching with a ruder touch than I had known
before the cores of my heart, kept me alive to every word and movement
around me. The evening passed on, and the sun set amidst a mass of
wind-tossed clouds, and with the night came storm and rain. It raged
until midnight, and then the heavens cleared, and the stars came out
with their twinkling faces looking down upon the wondering earth,
emblems of peace, and rest, and hope. I was gazing at them through my
half-open stable door, when Roberts came in and threw himself upon the
straw, weeping bitterly; and the sorrow of the boy told me that all was
over!

[Illustration]

[Illustration]




                              CHAPTER XI.
                   ANOTHER LOSS AND A DISAPPOINTMENT.


What I felt that night I do not care to tell—the sorrow of the time was
too deep for words. I loved my mistress; she had come upon me like
sunshine after storm—her very touch was balm to my wounded spirit—and
she was gone! Roberts made a deal of noise over his sorrow, and I have
no doubt he felt the loss; but his wound was not so deep as mine, I
warrant you.

They buried my mistress quietly, as she wished; and then another
misfortune came upon me. Mr. Graham was taken ill. Mr. Archibald did not
go back to college, but remained with his father; and from this I argued
that the illness was of a very serious nature. Then came a dread upon me
of what was to come, and I was very unhappy indeed.

I saw very little of Mr. Archibald, and what I did see was not pleasing
to me. He appeared to be very proud and imperious, and talked to
everybody in a very commanding way. As for _me_, he only came once into
the stable, and then he positively laughed at me, called me a
‘broken-down hack,’ and asked Roberts why I was not sent to the
knacker’s.

‘Miss Nellie was very fond of Blossom, sir,’ replied Roberts; ‘he ain’t
much to look at, but he ain’t a bad horse—he is very willing, sir.’

This recommendation made no impression upon Mr. Archibald, who laughed
contemptuously and went away; but I felt very grateful to the boy
Roberts, who preferred speaking the truth to toadying to the disparaging
opinions of his young master. Mr. Graham was very ill, suffering from
brain fever, the result of many months of anxiety and watchfulness over
his daughter. The illness had long been pending, and descended upon him
with terrible force. He became delirious, raving night and day, until
nature was exhausted, and a calm settling upon him, he followed his
daughter to the grave.

This second blow, following so closely upon the first, fairly broke me
down; a gloom settled upon the house, but nowhere so darkly as upon me.
I not only grieved deeply for the great loss I had sustained, but there
was the weight of a dark uncertain future hanging over me.

I saw nobody but Roberts until the second funeral was over; and a few
days after the event, Mr. Archibald, Roberts, and another servant in
livery entered the stable. The latter person seemed to be very
deferential to Mr. Archibald, and I saw at once that he was his own
servant—a man I had heard Roberts speak of as Mr. Archibald’s Hoskins.

‘There, that’s the nag, Hoskins,’ said Mr. Archibald; ‘I make you a
present of him, instead of a Christmas box by-and-by. He will fetch
something for cats’-meat, if for nothing else.’

This unmerited insult was received with an approving laugh from Hoskins;
but Roberts, with tears in his eyes, stepped forward and said,—

‘If you please, Mr. Archibald, Miss Nellie always said Blossom was not
to be sold.’

‘Did she?’ returned Mr. Archibald. ‘And pray what was to be done with
him?’

‘Master said he would keep him while he lived, and leave enough money to
keep him at grass in his old days, if he died before him.’

Oh, kind mistress and worthy master! you have the thanks a horse can
give for the noble thought; but alas, it was never to be!

‘There was nothing of the sort in his will,’ said Mr. Archibald; ‘and I
do not feel called upon to carry out such a sentimental scheme upon your
bare assertion, my lad. Hoskins, the animal is yours; get him out of the
way as soon as you can, for I want the stable for my own horses.’

Having thus sealed my fate, he turned upon his heel and went his way.
The cold, selfish sentence of Mr. Archibald Graham was carried out. I
will make no comment upon the character of this young man, but leave my
readers to judge his conduct for themselves. A few hours later I left
him and Maythorn Lodge behind me.

Hoskins took me down to Smithfield, where he sold me to the proprietor
of an advertising van; and for four months I dragged behind me a huge
unsightly structure of light boarding, whereon was pasted the
advertisements my master was employed to make known.

Sometimes we puffed a patent pill, warranted to cure every form of
suffering known to man; at another time we vaunted the merits of some
low wretched comic singer, who did his best nightly to degrade already
fallen man; and then this gave way to a wholesale outfitter’s
declaration that he was the best of tailors; and so we went on, until an
Act of Parliament swept advertising vans from the public streets, and my
master’s trade was ruined.

This was a very wretched time for me: I was badly stabled, badly fed; I
was never once decently groomed all the time I was with this man.
Sometimes, it is true, he scratched my back with a bit of a curry-comb,
and threw a pail or two of water over my legs; but this was all, and
what with the life I led, and the wet weather and the dirt of the
streets, I sank down very low and became a poor wretched object indeed.

I was sold again for so small a sum that I will not name it—none who
knew poor Blossom in his earliest days would have dreamt that he could
have come to such a pass. This buyer was Mr. Crabbe, livery stable
keeper and cab proprietor of Hackney Marsh—the last master I shall ever
know.

He kept about a dozen horses—eight of them young and in good condition;
the rest were pitiable objects like myself, and we were reserved for
night work.

I need not tell you that our position in the stable was anything but an
enviable one. The young horses turned up their noses at us, and upon the
strength of being better fed and better cared for than our wretched
selves, treated us with the greatest possible contempt. Mr. Crabbe
himself seemed to have no thought or care for us, and never once, from
the hour I became his property to the present moment, did he ever bestow
a kind word or a caress upon me.

As for my duty—my work as night cab horse—I will speak more of that
presently; but just now I must tell of an incident which occurred in the
stable, as it bears upon the fate of a friend who is very dear to me—I
mean Rip, the noble, handsome Rip.

One day, late in the afternoon, Mr. Crabbe brought home a new horse, a
young thing about four years of age, which he put in the stall next to
mine. I just glanced at him, but made no attempt to open a conversation,
as I had endured so many insults and snubbings from the better horses of
our stable; and after a time forgetting him, fell into a musing mood. My
fancy carried me back, as it often did, to my place of birth, and the
paddock and the surrounding scene rose up before me. For a moment the
quietude of the sweet place was upon me, and bowing my head I murmured,
‘Oh, Upton, Upton! would that I could take these old bones down to your
green fields! Would that I could lie down beside your sweet river and
give up my life!’

‘Who talks of Upton?’ said a voice near me; and turning my head I saw
the stranger look at me with an inquisitive face.

‘I do,’ I replied; ‘do you know the place?’

‘I ought to,’ replied the other; ‘for I have only just left it, and a
bad leave it is for me, I fear. I was reared on Mr. Bayne’s farm, and a
kinder master never lived.’

I could barely speak for the tumultuous throbbing of my heart, but I
managed to stammer out, ‘Tell me all you know; is Mr. Bayne alive?’ And
then I asked for my mother, and the stranger told me what I expected to
hear, that she had lived to a good old age, and had died a year ago.

[Illustration: THE TALK IN THE STABLE.]

‘And Mr. Bayne?’ I asked again.

‘He is getting into years, but hale and hearty still,’ replied my
informant. ‘But just before I came away a sad accident happened to a
farmer named Martin. Boxer was his horse, who used to bring him home
from market when he had been drinking; but Boxer was getting old and
blind, I suppose, and walked out of the road into the mill-pond. Be it
as it may, Mr. Martin and Boxer were found drowned together.’

I expressed my sorrow for both master and horse, and then with a
palpitating heart I inquired after my old friend Rip.

‘Rip, Rip, let me see,’ said my companion, thoughtfully; ‘an old horse
belonging to the Tracey family, is it not?’

It seemed so odd to hear any one speaking of Rip as an old horse: but
time had flown since we met, and he, like me, was past his prime. But he
could not be so worn-out as I was—his lot had fallen upon smoother
places than mine; still he was old, there was no disputing that.

‘A sad accident happened to this Rip,’ continued my informant; ‘a
careless groom drove him against another carriage, and a splinter
entering his leg, he was lamed for life.’

‘And what has become of him?’ I asked softly, my thoughts running upon
knives and guns in an instant.

‘The family with whom he lives are very kind to horses,’ was the
reply—‘especially the elder branches. Rip has served them well, I
believe, and they have rewarded him by making arrangements for him to
end his days in the paddock where he lived when young. His leg will
never be of any real service again, but it has ceased to pain him, and
he limps about as happy and contented as a horse can be.’

Oh, Rip, my friend, this is good news of you. Long may you live to enjoy
your well-earned rest and ease! There was a choking feeling in my throat
as I thought of our different lots, but I hope it was not the result of
envy. Envy is as bad in a horse as it is in a man.

‘Did he ever speak of a horse named Blossom?’ I ventured to ask softly,
after a pause.

‘Very often,’ replied my companion—‘wondering what had become of him—and
always in terms of the greatest compassion. I fancy that Blossom is
rather an unfortunate horse. Do you know him?’

I did not answer, for my heart was full, and my brain was busy with
thinking of my dear old friend, high-spirited noble Rip—and generous
too, for he could think of me—poor, simple, vulgar Blossom. I felt very
sorry for having neighed so loudly when I met him on the race-course;
but he forgave me, and what more could I want?

I ought to have been sleeping that afternoon; but the news concerning
Rip drove all thoughts of rest from my brain, and I had not closed my
eyes when the ostler came in to harness me for my nightly work.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]




                              CHAPTER XII.
                             EXIT BLOSSOM.


No harder lot could have fallen upon a horse than that which befell me.
The night-work of cab horses is bad at the best, but mine was worse than
the ordinary lot of these unfortunate creatures. I was driven by a man
named Stevens—a coarse, brutal fellow, who could not drive a yard
without using the whip and supplementing his cruelty with bitter oaths.

Then my work was in the night, when fallen man shows up at his worst.
Oh! the sad scenes I have witnessed! the dreadful things I have heard!
When the dark mantle has fallen upon the earth, Vice comes out boldly
and walks under the stars as if there were no great Witness of its
infamy far above. Then man comes out of the dark alleys and robs and
plunders, and does desperate deeds of violence to others who stagger
homeward soddened with drink. Then it is we hear the lewd song, the
bitter blasphemy, the oath and curse and shriek for help. Then it is
that woman, lost to everything but a defiant determination to live on
through her shame, crawls about the streets, sinking lower and lower
every moment of her life. Do the shameless and vicious think that night
screens their evil deeds? Is it possible that they can think it less
sinful to act under the starlight than under the broad beams of the
midday sun; or is it that vice and folly _cannot_, _dare not_ come out
and face the pure golden light in the sky? Oh, man! have you forgotten
that night was given to rest in, and not to riot away? Better be in your
graves than out and doing the things I have seen you perform.

I shrink from any further record of this time—sad and cruel for me from
the first, and sad and cruel still; but in the darkness, standing by the
hour together in the chill fog, who could marvel that this old body sank
under it, and that I am broken in health? I am not so old a horse in
actual years; but misfortune, neglect, and ill-usage have brought me to
the end of my life long before my time.

Last night, while dragging a fare up Ludgate Hill, my head suddenly swam
round, and I staggered and fell. When I came to, there was a small knot
of night prowlers around me, and Stevens the driver was kicking my ribs
with his heavy boots. I got up somehow, and I staggered on, half-blind,
and every bone in my body aching most terribly. The fare left the cab in
Cannon Street, and shortly after I fell again. I did not faint, but I
lay utterly helpless and exhausted. Stevens kicked me until he was
tired; but I could not rise for half an hour or more, and when I did
scramble to my feet I could not drag the cab, and Stevens, putting it
under shelter, led me home.

I heard him tell Mr. Crabbe what had befallen me, and the livery stable
keeper positively _laughed_—think of it, my friends, the man laughed at
my misery and the brutality of the driver!

‘It must have come sooner or later,’ I heard Mr. Crabbe say; ‘he has
lasted longer than I expected. As you go home tell the knacker to give
me a look up to-morrow.’

I heard my sentence almost without a quiver. I was so worn-out, so
reduced by pain, so weary of my existence, that I had no wish to exist.
Better die a thousand times than live on as I have lived during the past
six months.

[Illustration: POOR BLOSSOM’S LAST DAYS.]

I was resigned, but with my resignation came a sense of gross injustice.
I had toiled all the days of my life for man, and when worn-out and
broken, doomed to die in a knacker’s yard! It may be just—man is wiser
than I am; but it seemed hard to end one’s days in such a place.

In the midst of my gloom a thought arose which gives me consolation to
this moment—_I have done my duty_. None of my masters, from the first to
the last, can accuse me of having shirked my work or shown the least
disposition to vice; and there is a companion thought to it which gives
me further comfort—I am sure that many of those who knew me, most of
them ignorant of my fate, will speak kindly of me when I am gone, and
say a good word for poor Blossom.

I have a hope too—a hope which I hold close to my heart—and that is of
Rip, dear, noble Rip, roaming over the paddock I know so well, with the
gentle stream flowing at its base, and the old water-mill turning in the
sunlight, and the song of the lark and the hum of the bee in his ear,
and the sweet-scented clover throwing its perfume into his grateful
nostrils. As you wander thus, oh, noble Rip, I hope—ah, _know_—that you
will sometimes think of your old friend, who served mankind all his
life, and died by the knacker’s hand!

[Illustration: Finis]

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                              PUBLICATIONS

                                FOR THE

                   PROMOTION OF KINDNESS TO ANIMALS.


  =Our Zoological Friends.= With Illustrations. By Harland Coultas. 6s.

  =Anecdotes in Natural History.= By the Rev. F. O. Morris, B.A. 5s.

  =Birds and their Nests.= By Mary Howitt. With Twenty-three full-page
    Engravings. Cloth, 5s.

  =Animal Sagacity: a Selection of Remarkable Incidents illustrative of
    the Sagacity of Animals.= Edited by Mrs. S. C. Hall. Cloth, 5s.;
    gilt edges, 7s. 6d.

  =Our Feathered Companions, Neighbours, and Visitors.= By the Rev. T.
    Jackson, M.A. With more than One Hundred Engravings. Cloth, 5s.;
    gilt, 7s. 6d.

  =Our Dumb Neighbours; or, Conversations of a Father with his Children
    on Domestic and other Animals.= By the Rev. T. Jackson, M.A. Cloth,
    5s.

  =Clever Dogs, Horses, etc., with Anecdotes of other Animals.= By
    Shirley Hibberd, Esq. Twenty-four Engravings. Cloth, Medallion on
    side, 5s.; gilt, 7s. 6d.

  =Our Four-Footed Friends; or, The History of Manor Farm, and the
    People and Animals there.= By Mary Howitt. Fifty Engravings. Cloth,
    5s.

  =Dogs and their Doings.= By the Rev. F. O. Morris, B.A. With Numerous
    Illustrations. Cloth, 5s.; gilt, 7s. 6d.

  =Our Children’s Pets.= By Josephine. Seventy Engravings. Cloth, 5s.;
    gilt, 7s. 6d.

  =Our Dumb Companions; or, Stories about Dogs, Horses, Cats, and
    Donkeys.= By the Rev. T. Jackson, M.A. Seventy-five Engravings.
    Cloth, 5s.

  =Animals and their Young.= By Harland Coultas. With Seventy
    Engravings. 5s.

  =Our Duty to Animals.= By Mrs. C. Bray. Cloth, 1s. 6d.; limp, 1s.

  =Anecdotes of Animals.= With Cover and full of Illustrations, 1d.
    each.

       1. Anecdotes of Horses. 2. Anecdotes of Dogs. 3. Anecdotes of
       Donkeys. 4. Neddy and Me. 5. Blackbird’s Nest. 6. On the
       Management of Horses.

  =A Mother’s Lesson on Kindness to Animals.= 1st, 2nd, and 3rd series,
    cloth, 1s.; limp, 6d. each.

  =The Bird’s Nest.= A Story. Translated from the German. In large type.
    1s.

  =Dick and his Donkey; or, How to pay the Rent.= Edition in large type,
    coloured stiff cover, 1s. Cloth, 6d.

  =Old Janet’s Christmas Gift.= An Interesting Story of a Donkey. 2d.

  =The Natural History Picture-Roll.= With Large Engravings and
    Large-type Letterpress, for each day of the month. Price 3s. In
    schools and nurseries this ‘Roll’ will be found a rich treasure of
    daily interest to the young.


        LONDON: S. W. PARTRIDGE & Co., 9, PATERNOSTER ROW, E.C.

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                          TRANSCRIBER’S NOTES


 1. Silently corrected typographical errors and variations in spelling.
 2. Archaic, non-standard, and uncertain spellings retained as printed.
 3. Enclosed italics font in _underscores_.
 4. Enclosed bold font in =equals=.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Poor Blossom, by Edith Carrington

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK POOR BLOSSOM ***

***** This file should be named 63418-0.txt or 63418-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/3/4/1/63418/

Produced by Richard Tonsing, David Garcia and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This
book was produced from scanned images of public domain
material from the Google Books project.)

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
